WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION

WT/DS379/14 16 May 2012
(12-2639)
Original: English

UNITED STATES ­ DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES ON CERTAIN PRODUCTS FROM CHINA
Understanding between China and the United States Regarding Procedures under Articles 21 and 22 of the DSU
The following communication, dated 11 May 2012, from the delegation of China and the delegation of the United States to the Chairperson of the Dispute Settlement Body, is circulated at the request of these delegations.
_______________
China and the United States would like to inform the Dispute Settlement Body of the attached "Agreed Procedures under Articles 21 and 22 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding" between the United States and China with respect to the dispute United States ­ Definitive Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties on Certain Products from China (WT/DS379).
We request that you please circulate the attached agreement to the Members of the Dispute Settlement Body.

WT/DS379/14 Page 2
Agreed Procedures under Articles 21 and 22 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding
United States ­ Definitive Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties on Certain Products from China (WT/DS379)
The Dispute Settlement Body ("DSB") adopted its recommendations and rulings in the dispute United States ­ Definitive Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties on Certain Products from China (WT/DS379) on 25 March 2011.
Pursuant to Article 21.3(b) of the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes ("DSU"), the People's Republic of China ("China") and the United States of America ("United States") (collectively, "the Parties") agreed that the reasonable period of time in which the United States would have to implement the recommendations and rulings of the DSB in this dispute would be eleven (11) months, expiring on 25 February 2012 (WT/DS379/11). On 17 January 2012, the Parties jointly notified the DSB that they had agreed to modify the reasonable period of time so as to expire on 25 April 2012 (WT/DS379/13).
The Parties have agreed on the following procedures for the exclusive purposes of this dispute. They are designed to facilitate the resolution of the dispute and reduce the scope for procedural disputes and are without prejudice to either Party's views on the correct interpretation of the DSU:
1. Should China consider that the situation described in Article 21.5 of the DSU exists, China may at any time request the establishment of a panel pursuant to that Article. China is not required to hold consultations with the United States prior to requesting the establishment of an Article 21.5 panel. However, if China requests consultations, the Parties agree to hold consultations within 15 days from the receipt of the request.
2. In case consultations are requested, China may, at any time after the 15-day period referenced in paragraph 1, request the establishment of a panel under Article 21.5 of the DSU.
3. At the first DSB meeting at which China's request for the establishment of an Article 21.5 panel appears on the agenda, the United States shall accept the establishment of that panel.
4. The Parties shall cooperate to enable the Article 21.5 panel to circulate its report within 90 days of the panel's establishment, excluding such time during which the panel's work may be suspended pursuant to Article 12.12 of the DSU.
5. Either Party may request the DSB to adopt the report of the Article 21.5 panel at a DSB meeting held at least 20 days after the circulation of the report to the Members unless either Party appeals the report.
6. In the event of an appeal of the Article 21.5 panel report, the Parties shall cooperate to enable the Appellate Body to circulate its report to the Members within 90 days from the date of notification of the appeal to the DSB. Further, either Party may request the DSB to adopt the reports of the Appellate Body and of the Article 21.5 panel (as modified by the Appellate Body report) at a DSB meeting held within 30 days of the circulation of the Appellate Body report to the Members.
7. In the event that the DSB following a proceeding under Article 21.5 of the DSU rules that a measure taken to comply does not exist or is inconsistent with a covered agreement, China may request authorization to suspend concessions or other obligations pursuant to Article 22 of the DSU. The United States shall not assert that China is precluded from obtaining such

WT/DS379/14 Page 3

DSB authorization on the grounds that the request was made outside the 30-day time-period specified in Article 22.6 of the DSU. This is without prejudice to the right of the United States to have the matter referred to arbitration in accordance with Article 22.6 of the DSU.
8. If China requests authorization to suspend concessions or other obligations pursuant to Article 22.2 of the DSU, the United States shall have the right to object under Article 22.6 of the DSU to the level of suspension of concessions or other obligations and/or claim that the principles and procedures set forth in Article 22.3 of the DSU have not been followed, and the matter will be referred to arbitration pursuant to Article 22.6 of the DSU.
9. The Parties will cooperate to enable the arbitrator under Article 22.6 of the DSU to circulate its decision within 60 days of the referral to arbitration.
10. If any of the original panelists is not available for either the Article 21.5 compliance panel or the Article 22.6 arbitration (or both), the Parties will promptly consult on a replacement, and either Party may request the Director-General of the WTO to appoint, within ten days of being so requested, a replacement for the proceeding or proceedings in which a replacement is required. If an original panelist is unavailable to serve in either of the proceedings, the Parties will further request that, in making this appointment, the Director-General seek a person who will be available to act in both proceedings.
11. The Parties will continue to cooperate in all matters related to these agreed procedures and agree not to raise any procedural objection to any of the steps set out herein. If, during the application of these procedures, the Parties consider that a procedural aspect has not been properly addressed in these procedures, they will endeavor to find a solution within the shortest time possible that will not affect the other aspects and steps agreed herein.
12. These agreed procedures in no way prejudice other rights of either Party to take any action or procedural step to protect its rights and interests, including recourse to the DSU.

Signed in Geneva, 11 May 2012.

For the People's Republic of China

For the United States of America

H.E. Mr. YI Xiaozhun Ambassador

H.E. Mr. Michael Punke Ambassador

__________

