WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-1

ANNEX A

INITIAL BRIEFS OF PARTIES AND THIRD PARTIES

Annex A-1 Annex A-2 Annex A-3 Annex A-4 Annex A-5
Annex A-6 Annex A-7 Annex A-8 Annex A-9 Annex A-10

Contents Initial Brief from Brazil (5 June 2003) Initial Brief from the United States (5 June 2003) Third Party Initial Brief from Argentina (10 June 2003) Third Party Initial Brief from Australia (10 June 2003) Third Party Initial Brief from the European Communities (10 June 2003) Third Party Initial Brief from India (10 June 2003) Third Party Initial Brief from New Zealand (10 June 2003) Third Party Initial Brief from Paraguay (10 June 2003) Comments of Brazil on the Initial Briefs (13 June 2003) Comments of the United States on the Initial Briefs (13 June 2003)

Page A-2 A-10 A-15 A-18 A-20
A-25 A-27 A-28 A-29 A-38

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-2

ANNEX A-1

BRAZIL'S BRIEF ON PRELIMINARY ISSUE REGARDING THE "PEACE CLAUSE" OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE
5 June 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ............................................................................... 2
II. ANALYSIS OF THE PHRASE "EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS"................................... 3
III. THE CONTEXT OFF ARTICLE 13 DEMONSTRATES THAT THERE IS NO LEGAL REQUIREMENT FOR THE PANEL TO FIRST MAKE A FINDING ON THE PEACE CLAUSE BEFORE PERMITTING BRAZIL TO SET OUT ITS ARGUMENT AND CLAIMS REGARDING US VIOLATIONS OF THE SCM AGREEMENT ................................................................................................. 5
IV. RESOLUTION OF THRESHOLD ISSUES PRIOR TO PROVIDING PARTIES THE OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT ALL OF ITS EVIDENCE IS CONTRARY TO THE PRACTICE OF EARLIER PANELS................................... 6
V. BRAZIL WILL BE PREJUDICED BY SEPARATE HEARINGS ON THE PEACE CLAUSE ISSUE.................................................................................................... 8
VI. CONCLUSION.................................................................................................................... 9
I. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1. Brazil responds to the Panel's 28 May 2003 request for a briefing on the following issue:
Whether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions of Article 13 remain unfulfilled.1

1 The Panel also "invites the parties to explain their interpretation of the words `exempt from actions' as used in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as bringing to the Panel's attention any other relevant provisions of the covered agreements and any other relevant considerations which the parties consider should guide the Panel's consideration of this issue."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-3
2. The short answer to this question is "no". There is no procedural rule or legal requirement for a panel to make such a preliminary finding. The phrase "exempt from actions" in Article 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA) means that if all the conditions of Article 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) are fulfilled (i.e., there is peace clause protection), a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic and export support measures that otherwise would be subject to the disciplines of certain provisions of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (ASCM or SCM Agreement) or Article XVI of GATT 1994. But neither the phrase "exempt from actions" nor AoA Article 13 compel the Panel to first make a peace clause finding before considering the substance of Brazil's ASCM and GATT Article XVI claims.
3. Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is not a "special and additional" rule set out in Appendix 2 to the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes (DSU). Article 19 of the AoA makes all DSU provisions applicable to the AoA. Pursuant to DSU Article 11, a panel must make an "objective assessment of the facts of the case". Assessing and weighing all relevant facts ­ including rebuttal facts ­ obtained during the normal two meeting panel process is essential to resolve properly fact-intensive issues relating to the peace clause. This Panel should follow the lead of previous panels that made similar complex threshold findings in final panel reports.
4. Brazil will be prejudiced by delays in the process because a number of Brazil's claims are not dependent on any resolution of the "peace clause". Much of the proof required for demonstrating that the US has no peace clause protection under Articles 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) is the same evidence demonstrating US violations under the SCM Agreement. Requiring separate briefings, hearing, presentation of factual evidence and legal argument for such inter-connected "peace clause" issues would seriously disrupt Brazil's presentation of its evidence, lead to duplication of its efforts, delay the proceeding, and increase Brazil's financial and human resource costs.
II. ANALYSIS OF THE PHRASE "EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS"
1. The Panel has requested that Brazil address the meaning of the phrase "exempt from actions" in AoA Article 13. In the view of Brazil, this phrase means that a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic or export support measures that otherwise would be subject to the disciplines of certain ASCM and GATT 1994 provisions if those measures are in compliance with the various peace clause provisions. It does not mean that a Panel may not hear evidence or consider Brazil's ASCM or GATT 1994 claims while it decides whether all the peace clause conditions have been fulfilled. In sum, this phrase in no way suggests that a panel must make a finding that the peace clause provisions are unfulfilled before proceeding with the other claims.
2. The phrase "exempt from actions" is used, as relevant to this dispute, in AoA Articles 13(a), 13(b)(ii), and 13(c)(ii). The dictionary definition of "actions" is "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy."2 In a multilateral system such as the WTO (like GATT 19473 before it), "actions" are taken collectively by Members. DSU Article 2.1 (last sentence) emphasizes this notion
2 New Shorter Oxford Dictionary, Volume 1 (1993 Edition), at 22. 3 Article XXV of GATT 1994 provides for "joint action" by the contracting parties to "further the objectives of this Agreement". The decision by the contracting parties to approve the Tokyo Round results in 1979 was entitled "Action by the CONTRACTING PARTIES on the Multilateral Trade Negotiations". BISD 26S/201.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-4
in stating that "only those Members that are parties to that Agreement may participate in decisions or actions taken by the DSB with respect to that dispute." (emphasis added) "Actions" include decisions made by the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) to adopt rulings and recommendations of panels and the Appellate Body. Article XVI:1 of GATT 1994 also provides for another action, a decision by the relevant WTO body to hold consultations with a subsidizing Member to discuss what steps that Member will take to remove the serious prejudice or threat caused by its subsidies.4 And "actions" also include the enforcement of remedies authorized by the DSB pursuant to DSU Article 22. In sum, "actions" are multilaterally agreed decisions of WTO bodies including the DSB.
3. The ordinary meaning of the word "exempt" is "grant immunity or freedom from liability to which others are subject".5 The chapeau of Article 13 states that the period of exemption is "during the implementation period", i.e., until 1 January 2004.
4. Combining these definitions of "actions" and "exempt," the term "exempt from action" in Article 13(b)(ii) means that before 1 January 2004, a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic support measures that otherwise would be subject to the disciplines of Article XVI:1 and ASCM Articles 5 and 6. And "exempt from action" in the context of Article XVI:1 would mean that the WTO could not take a decision to require a Member to consult with the WTO on how the Member will eliminate serious prejudice or the threat of serious prejudice caused by that subsidy. However, the immediate context of the phrase "exempt from actions" in Articles 13(a), 13 (b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) make clear that the "exemption" is not absolute but rather subject to a number of conditions:
 Article 13(a) only permits green box domestic subsidies to be exempt from the types of determinations listed in Article 13(a) (i), (ii) or (iii) if they "conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2" of the AoA. If a domestic support measure does not comply with one of a number of requirements of the "green box" provisions of Annex 2, then such domestic support would be evaluated under the peace clause provisions of Article 13(b) and could be subject to a remedy determination by the DSB and/or the WTO.
 Under the provisions of peace clause Article 13(b)(ii), "amber" and "blue" box domestic support measures provided during any marketing year between 1995-2003 are only exempt from determinations by the DSB and/or the WTO relating to paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 (not Article XVI, paragraph 3) and Articles 5 and 6 (not Article 3) of the SCM Agreement "provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year". If the quantity of amber and/or blue box support granted in any marketing year from the 1995-2003 period is greater than that decided during marketing year 1992, then the subsidy programme is not "exempt" from such determinations.
 Export subsidies under the peace clause provisions of AoA Article 13(c)(ii) are only exempt from determinations by the DSB and/or the WTO relating to Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement if they "conform fully to the provisions of Part V of [the AoA]". Thus, if export subsidy measures are inconsistent with the provisions of AoA Articles 8, 9 or 10, then they are no longer exempt from such determinations.
4 See, e.g., Report of the Working Party on Article XVI:1 discussions on EC- Refunds on Exports of Sugar, BISD 28S/80.
5 New Shorter Oxford Dictionary, Volume 1 (1993 Edition), at 878.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-5
5. In sum, "exempt from actions" means that a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic or export support measures that are "peace clause" protected. Yet, as described below, the phrase "exempt from actions" when viewed in the broader context of DSU provisions does not require the Panel to first make a peace clause compliance finding before hearing or considering any of the evidence or arguments relating to the various ASCM or GATT 1994 claims.
III. THE CONTEXT OF ARTICLE 13 DEMONSTRATES THAT THERE IS NO LEGAL REQUIREMENT FOR THE PANEL TO FIRST MAKE A FINDING ON THE PEACE CLAUSE BEFORE PERMITTING BRAZIL TO SET OUT ITS ARGUMENT AND CLAIMS REGARDING US VIOLATIONS OF THE SCM AGREEMENT
1. There is nothing in the text of Article 13 or other provisions of the AoA, the SCM Agreement, or any other WTO Agreement requiring the Panel to make a preliminary factual and legal finding on the applicability of the peace clause before examining Brazil's evidence and argument regarding US violations of the SCM Agreement or GATT 1994.
2. First, and most importantly, Annex 2 of the DSU Agreement is the closed list of "special and additional" rules and procedures that trump the normal rules of dispute settlement. This list does not include Article 13 or any other AoA provisions. Thus, resolution of the "peace clause" issues, like other issues raised by Brazil's request for establishment of a panel, must be resolved using normal DSU rules and procedures.
3. Second, AoA Article 13 does not exclude AoA Article 19 which states that the "provisions of Articles XXII and XXIII of GATT 1994, as elaborated and applied by the Dispute Settlement Understanding, shall apply to consultations and the settlement of disputes under this Agreement" (emphasis added). Among the DSU procedures applicable to AoA Article 13 is DSU Article 11 which provides, in part:
[a] panel should make an objective assessment of the matter before it, including an objective assessment of the facts of the case and the applicability of and conformity with the relevant covered agreements, and make such other findings as will assist the DSB in making the recommendations or in giving the rulings provided for in the covered agreements.
4. Article 11 contemplates that a panel must make an "objective assessment of the facts of the case". It does not state that a panel must conduct such an assessment by first examining part of the facts of a case before it then examines other facts. Further, Article 11 contemplates that the parties will have the full opportunity to search for and present rebuttal facts. This is accomplished through the normal two meeting panel process ­ not in a single truncated meeting. It is also accomplished through the exchange of rebuttal submissions.
5. Review by a panel of all the facts including rebuttal facts is necessary before deciding whether the peace clause is applicable or not. This follows from the inter-related nature of the proof necessary to demonstrate the peace clause and ASCM actionable and prohibited export subsidy claims. As the Panel will discover shortly upon reviewing Brazil's First Submission, the facts relevant to the application of the "peace clause" largely overlap with facts relevant to determining whether the programmes at issue are "actionable" or "prohibited export subsidies". Consider the following:

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-6
 Each of the domestic support subsidies at issue in Brazil's actionable subsidy claims are also at issue in Brazil's proof regarding the absence of US peace clause protection for marketing years 1999-2002. For the purposes of AoA Article 13(b)(ii) the "amber" box subsidies include marketing loan/loan deficiency payments; crop insurance payments; Step-2 payments; production flexibility contract payments; direct payments; marketing loss assistance payments; countercyclical payments, and cottonseed payments. Proof of both peace clause and actionable subsidies require the same detailed descriptions of the type, nature, extent, and history of each of these US domestic support programmes.
 Brazil has made claims under the AoA and the ASCM regarding prohibited export subsidies under the US Step-2 programme and US export credit guarantee programmes. Brazil will demonstrate that these two export subsidies do not "conform fully to the provisions of Part V of this Agreement" in the sense of AoA Article 13(c); obviously, Brazil's evidence and argument regarding the lack of conformity of these two measures with Part V of the AoA largely overlaps with the evidence and argument necessary to demonstrate a violation of ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and (b).
6. This close overlap of proof for both peace clause and actionable and prohibited subsidy claims highlights the need for the Panel to examine all the "facts of the case" together ­ including rebuttal facts presented by Brazil to contest US assertions. Such a determination can only be made after collecting information in an iterative process.
7. DSU Article 11 also requires a panel to consider the "applicability" of the "relevant covered agreements". This includes deciding whether actions are exempt from the covered agreements. But Article 11 contains no requirement for a special briefing, meeting or determination by a panel to resolve such applicability or exemption.
8. Of course, when fulfilling its obligations under DSU Article 11, the Panel may well need to organize its assessment of the facts in its final determination by first examining and deciding issues related to the peace clause. The Appellate Body in Brazil Aircraft held that this is what the panel should have done in deciding the very similar peace-clause-like issues under ASCM Articles 27.2(b) and 27.4.6 But there is nothing in DSU Article 11 or any other WTO provision mandating that Brazil present its evidence relating to the peace clause alone, divorced from factual evidence and argument relating to the SCM Agreement. As described below, such a requirement would be inconsistent with the previous practice of panels and prejudicial to Brazil's efforts to make a coherent and unified presentation of its case.
IV. RESOLUTION OF THRESHOLD ISSUES PRIOR TO PROVIDING PARTIES THE OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT ALL OF ITS EVIDENCE IS CONTRARY TO THE PRACTICE OF EARLIER PANELS
1. Many panels have faced preliminary threshold issues under DSU Article 6.2 and other WTO Agreements. These preliminary issues have involved whether panels have the jurisdiction to resolve and make recommendations concerning certain claims and measures. Many of these preliminary issues involved far less complex facts than are presented by the peace clause in this dispute. Despite this, many panels waited to resolve these threshold jurisdictional issues until the final determination
6 Appellate Body Report, Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft, WT/DS46/AB/R (adopted 2 August 1999), paras. 143-44.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-7
after reviewing all the evidence and arguments.7 Other panels have decided these threshold issues after the first meeting of the panel with the parties where the complaining party had an opportunity to present its evidence.8
2. The closest case to the peace clause issue presented here was addressed in Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft.9 That dispute involved Articles 27.2(b) and 27.4 of the SCM Agreement, which exempts certain developing country Members from obligations under ASCM Article 3.1(a) provided that such a Member has complied with certain stated condiditons.10 The Appellate Body discussed the application of this peace-clause-like provision in Brazil Aircraft.11
7 WTO Panel Report, Canada ­ Measures Affecting the Export of Civilian Aircraft, WT/DS70/R (adopted 20 August 1999), para. 9.15 (Panel rejected request for preliminary ruling based claims under DSU Article 6.2 and decided issues in final report); WTO Panel Report, Egypt ­ Definitive Anti-Dumping Measures on Steel Rebar from Turkey, WT/DS211/R (adopted 1 October 2002), para. 7.27-7.31 (Panel determined in final report that certain claims were not within its terms of reference); WTO Panel Report, India ­ Measures Affecting the Automotive Sector, WT/DS146/R and WT/DS/175/R (adopted 5 April 2002), paras. 7.44-7.103 (Panel rejected India's threshold res judicata claims in final panel report); WTO Panel Report, United States ­ Anti-Dumping Duty and Dynamic Random Access Semiconductors (DRAMS) of One Megabit or more From Korea, WT/DS99/R (adopted 19 March 1999), para. 6.17 (Panel ruled in final report granting US's preliminary objections that certain AD measures predated the WTO and could therefore not be subject to challenge); WTO Panel Report, Japan ­ Taxes on Alcoholic Beverages, WT/DS8/R, WT/DS10/R and WT/DS11/R (adopted 1 November 1996), para. 6.5 (Final report determined that a claim was outside of the Panel's terms of reference); WTO Panel Report United States ­ Definitive Safeguard Measures on Circular Welded Carbon Quality Line Pipe from Korea, WT/DS202/R (adopted 8 March 2002), para. 7.121-7.126 (Panel rejected a Korean claim as beyond its terms of reference in the final panel report); WTO Panel Report, United States ­ Anti-Dumping Measures on Certain Hot-Rolled Steel Products from Japan, WT/DS184/R (adopted 23 August 2001), para. 7.22 (final report determined that the "adverse facts available" claim was beyond its terms of reference).
8 WTO Panel Report, European Communities ­ Anti-Dumping Duties on Malleable Cast Iron Tube or Pipe Fittings from Brazil, WT/DS219/R (not yet adopted), para. 7.14 (preliminary finding made following first meeting with the parties that certain claims were not within its terms of reference); WTO Panel Report, United States ­ Countervailing Duties on Certain Corrosion-Resistant Carbon Steel Flat Products from Germany, WTDS213/R (adopted 19 December 2002), para 8.1 ­8.2 and footnote 224 (Panel decided at end of first meeting that two claims were outside its terms of reference and provided reasoning in final Panel report); WTO Panel Report, United States ­ Import Measures on Certain Products from the European Communities, WT/DS165/R (adopted 10 January 2001), para. 6.11 (Panel issued preliminary ruling regarding scope of measures within its terms of reference at the end of the second meeting with the parties); WTO Panel Report, United States ­ Safeguard Measures on Imports of Certain Fresh, Chilled and Frozen Lamb from New Zealand and Australia, WT/DS177/R and WT/DS178/R (adopted 16 May 2001), para. 5.15 (Panel ruled during first meeting that panel request was sufficient in covering all the claims brought by Australia and New Zealand).
9 WTO Panel Report, WT/DS46/AB/R (adopted 2 August 1999). 10 These provisions provide as follows:
27.2: The prohibition of paragraph 1(a) of Article 3 [prohibited export subsidies] shall not apply to: ** ** ** **
(b) other developing country Members for a period of eight years from the date of entry into force of the WTO Agreement, subject to compliance with the provisions in paragraph 4.
27.4: Any developing country Member referred to in paragraph 2(b) shall phase out its export subsidies within the eight-year period, preferably in a progressive manner. However, a developing country Member shall not increase the level of its export subsidies, and shall eliminate them within a period shorter than that provided for in this paragraph when the use of such export subsidies is inconsistent with its development needs. . . 11 Appellate Body Report, WT/DS46/AB/R (adopted 2 August 1999).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-8
In our view, too, paragraph 4 of Article 27 provides certain obligations that developing country Members must fulfill if they are to benefit from this special and differential treatment during the transitional period. . . . If a developing country Member complies with the obligations in Article 27.4, the prohibition on export subsidies in Article 3.1(a) simply does not apply. . . . If [. . .] non-compliance is demonstrated, then, and only then, does the prohibition of Article 3.1(a) apply to that developing country Member.12 (emphasis added)
3. The Appellate Body found that the panel should have considered first the threshold issue of whether Brazil was in compliance with Article 27.4 before deciding whether Brazil was in violation of ASCM Article 3.1(a).13 Yet, there was never a suggestion or finding that the Panel erred by not conducting a special briefing and special determination before even accepting arguments of Brazil and Canada regarding the ASCM Article 3.1(a) issue. A finding on the threshold issue in that case, as here, was conditioned upon other crucial determinations such as: the definition of subsidy; the moment when a subsidy was granted; the relevant level, etc. In that case, the threshold issue was decided by the Panel in the final report only after the parties had a chance to discuss all the related issues during the full course of the Panel proceedings.
4. There are a number of other threshold issues in WTO Agreements. No claim may be brought against a measure under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) unless the measure falls within the scope of the General Agreement on Trade in Services as defined in GATS Article I. No claim may be brought under Article 2 of the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade except in respect of a measure that is a "technical regulation" as defined by that agreement. Claims under the Agreement on Government Procurement may only be brought concerning procurement of an entity covered by Annex I of that agreement. While the language of these provisions differs, the effect is the same as the operation of the AoA Article 13 and ASCM Articles 27.2(b) and 27.4 ­ if the threshold objections are granted, the Panel cannot make a finding that the defending Member has acted contrary to the covered agreements. Yet none of these provisions have special and additional rules to provide for extraordinary preliminary briefings, meetings, and determinations prior to a panel hearing all of the claims presented.
V. BRAZIL WILL BE PREJUDICED BY SEPARATE HEARINGS AND BRIEFINGS ON THE PEACE CLAUSE ISSUE
1. Brazil has previously described in its letter of 23 May 2003 to the Panel the prejudice that will occur if special meetings and briefings are imposed to resolve peace clause issues. Such prejudice includes requiring Brazil to present the same evidence three ­ not two times ­ and in having to bring its legal and economic experts to Geneva for an extra meeting.
2. In addition, Brazil would note that such special proceedings would cause it prejudice because there would be significantly delays in the resolution of its claims ­ many of which do not implicate the peace clause. These non-peace clause claims include the following:
1. Article XVI:3 of GATT 1994 involving all domestic and export subsidies challenged by Brazil;
2. Article III:4 of GATT 1994 regarding Step-2 domestic payments;
12 Appellate Body Report, WT/DS46/AB/R, paras. 140-41 . 13 Appellate Body Report, WT/DS46/AB/R, paras. 143-44.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-9
1. Articles 3.1(b) and 3.2 of SCM Agreement regarding prohibited local content Step-2 domestic payments;
2. Articles 3.3 and 9.1(a) of the AoA regarding export subsidies including Step-2 export payments;
3. Articles 8 and 10.1 of the AoA regarding the GSM 102, GSM 103, and SCGP export credit guarantee programmes;
1. Articles 8 and 10.1 of the AoA regarding ETI measure (FSC replacement measure).
3. Moreover, Brazil's proof of these claims involves evidence overlapping with that relevant to Brazil's peace clause claims, as well as with its actionable and prohibited export subsidy claims. Given this overlap, a special proceeding on only the peace clause would negatively impact on Brazil's ability to present a coherent and unified presentation of its case.
VI. CONCLUSION
1. For the reasons set forth above, Brazil requests that this Panel find that it is not precluded from hearing evidence and considering Brazil's claims under the ASCM or Article XVI of GATT 1994 without first concluding that the peace clause conditions of AoA Article 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) remain unfulfilled.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-10

ANNEX A-2

INITIAL BRIEF OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE QUESTION POSED BY THE PANEL
5 June 2003
A. INTRODUCTION
1. The United States thanks the Panel for this opportunity to comment on the question concerning Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture ("Agriculture Agreement") posed by the Panel in its fax of 28 May 2003. The Panel asked the parties to address:
[W]hether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions in Article 13 remain unfulfilled. In particular, the Panel invites the parties to explain their interpretation of the words "exempt from actions" as used in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as bringing to the Panel's attention any other relevant provisions of the covered agreements and any other relevant considerations which the parties consider should guide the Panel's consideration of this issue.
2. Article 13 (the "Peace Clause") precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under Article XVI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 ("GATT 1994") and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures ("Subsidies Agreement") since the US support measures at issue conform with the Peace Clause. The Peace Clause "exempt[s]" conforming support measures "from actions based on" the corresponding provisions of the Subsidies Agreement and the GATT 1994.1 Read in accordance with the customary rules of interpretation of public international law, the phrase "exempt from actions" means "not exposed or subject to" a "legal process or suit" or the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim". Therefore, Brazil cannot maintain any action ­ and the United States cannot be required to defend any such action ­ based on provisions specified in the Peace Clause2 since the US support measures for upland cotton conform to the Peace Clause. In light of the correct interpretation of the Peace Clause, the United States respectfully requests the Panel to organize its procedures to first determine whether Brazil may maintain any action based on provisions exempted by the Peace Clause.
3. Consider the alternative approach proposed by Brazil in its 23 May letter ­ that is, requiring the United States to defend the substantive claims at the same time as arguing the Peace Clause issues. If the Panel were to allow Brazil to proceed with its substantive claims under the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 now, and only conclude later (for example, at the time of the issuance of its report) that the US measures at issue conform to the Peace Clause based on the facts of this dispute, US measures would already have been subject to Brazil's action based on those claims. As the United States will explain, this would contradict the ordinary meaning of the phrase "exempt from actions" in Article 13, read in its context, and in light of the object and purpose of the Agriculture
1 For example, Article XVI of the GATT 1994 and Part III of the Subsidies Agreement correspond to Article 13(a)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement, GATT 1994 Article XVI:1 and Articles 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement correspond to Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement, and GATT 1994 Article XVI and Articles 3, 5, and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement correspond to Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement..
2 See WT/DS267/7, at 3 (asserting claims based on Subsidies Agreement Articles 3.1(a), 3.1(b), 3.2, 5(a), 5(c), 6.3(b), 6.3(c), and 6.3(d) and GATT 1994 Articles XVI:1 and Article XVI:3).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-11
Agreement. Consequently, to allow Brazil to proceed with any action against these US measures that are exempt from actions based on such claims would contravene the Peace Clause and upset the balance of rights and obligations of WTO Members.
B. LEGAL INTERPRETATION OF THE PEACE CLAUSE
4. The Peace Clause, Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement3, governs the treatment during the implementation period of the Agreement of certain domestic support measures and export subsidies "notwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures".4 For purposes of the Panel 's question, there would appear to be two interpretive issues. The first is straightforward and apparently not in dispute: whether the Peace Clause is in effect for the measures at issue. The second is what is the nature of the treatment under the Peace Clause of conforming measures ­ i.e., what does it mean to say that conforming measures are "exempt from actions".
3 The Peace Clause reads:
During the implementation period, notwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (referred to in this Article as the "Subsidies Agreement"):
(a) domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2 to this Agreement shall be: (i) non-actionable subsidies for purposes of countervailing duties; (ii) exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 and Part III of the Subsidies Agreement; and (iii) exempt from actions based on non-violation nullification or impairment of the benefits of tariff concessions accruing to another Member under Article II of GATT 1994, in the sense of paragraph 1(b) of Article XXIII of GATT 1994;
(b) domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement including direct payments that conform to the requirements of paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, shall be: (i) exempt from the imposition of countervailing duties unless a determination of injury or threat thereof is made in accordance with Article VI of GATT 1994 and Part V of the Subsidies Agreement, and due restraint shall be shown in initiating any countervailing duty investigations; (ii) exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year; and (iii) exempt from actions based on non-violation nullification or impairment of the benefits of tariff concessions accruing to another Member under Article II of GATT 1994, in the sense of paragraph 1(b) of Article XXIII of GATT 1994, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year;
(c) export subsidies that conform fully to the provisions of Part V of this Agreement, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, shall be: (i) subject to countervailing duties only upon a determination of injury or threat thereof based on volume, effect on prices, or consequent impact in accordance with Article VI of GATT 1994 and Part V of the Subsidies Agreement, and due restraint shall be shown in initiating any countervailing duty investigations; and (ii) exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement.
Agriculture Agreement, Article 13 (footnote omitted). 4 Agriculture Agreement, Article 13 (chapeau). Article 21.1 of the Agriculture Agreement also makes it clear that the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 only apply "subject to" the provisions of the Agriculture Agreement, including Article 13 (the Peace Clause).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-12
1. Duration of the Peace Clause: The "Implementation Period"
5. The Peace Clause is in force at present. The first words of the Peace Clause ("During the implementation period") establish the duration of the treatment afforded by this provision. Article 1(f) of the Agriculture Agreement defines "implementation period" as "the six-year period commencing in the year 1995" but goes on to specify that "for purposes of Article 13, it means the nine-year period commencing in 1995". That is, Members determined that exempting certain measures from certain actions based on otherwise applicable WTO provisions was desirable for a time period longer than the period for the phase-in of all other commitments under the Agriculture Agreement. Thus, the Peace Clause currently continues to exempt conforming measures ­ whether US, Brazilian, or of any other Member ­ from actions under the corresponding provisions of the GATT 1994 and the Subsidies Agreement.
2. Effect of the Peace Clause: "Exempt from Actions"
6. For purposes of this dispute, all of the relevant provisions of the Peace Clause utilize the same language and construction: conforming measures "shall be . . . exempt from actions based on" specified provisions of the WTO agreements. The critical phrase "exempt from actions" is not defined in the Agriculture Agreement. According to the customary rules of interpretation of public international law5, these terms should be interpreted according to their ordinary meaning in their context, in light of the object and purpose of the Agreement.6
7. The ordinary meaning of the word "exempt" is "[n]ot exposed or subject to something unpleasant or inconvenient; not liable to a charge, tax, etc. (Foll. by from, of.)".7 The ordinary meaning of the word "action" is "[t]he taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain remedy; the right to institute a legal process" and "[a] legal process or suit".8 A legal dictionary provides further explanation of the term "action":
Term in its usual legal sense means a lawsuit brought in a court; a formal complaint within the jurisdiction of a court of law. . . . . The legal or formal demand of one's right from another person or party made and insisted on in a court of justice. An ordinary proceeding in a court of justice by which one party prosecutes another for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offence. It includes all the formal proceedings in a court of justice attendant upon the demand of a right made by one person of another in such court, including an adjudication upon the right and its enforcement or denial by the court.9
Thus, according to the ordinary meaning of the terms, "exempt from action" means "not exposed or subject to" the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim", such as a "formal complaint" or any "formal proceedings", including an "adjudication" of the claim. An even simpler formulation would be "not liable to" a "legal process or suit".
5 See Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes, Article 3.2 (The dispute settlement system "serves to preserve the rights and obligations of Members under the covered agreements, and to clarify the existing provisions of those agreements in accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law.").
6 The customary rules of interpretation of public international law are reflected in part in Article 31(1) of the Vienna Convention, which reads: "A treaty shall be interpreted in good faith in accordance with the ordinary meaning to be given to the terms of the treaty in their context and in the light of its object and purpose."
7 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, vol. 1, at 878 (first definition as adjective & noun) (italics in original).
8 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, vol. 1, at 22 (first and second definitions). 9 Black's Law Dictionary at 28 (6th ed. 1990) (emphasis added).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-13
8. Relevant context for the phrase "exempt from actions" includes the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes ("DSU"), which applies to "disputes brought pursuant to the consultation and dispute settlement provisions of the agreements listed in Appendix 1 to this Understanding (referred to in this Understanding as the `covered agreements')". The covered agreements, of course, include the Agriculture Agreement and the Subsidies Agreement. Article 3.7 of the DSU states: "Before bringing a case, a Member shall exercise its judgement as to whether action under these procedures would be fruitful" (emphasis added). Similarly, Article 4.5 of the DSU states: "In the course of consultations in accordance with the provisions of a covered agreement, before resorting to further action under this Understanding, Members should attempt to obtain satisfactory adjustment of the matter" (emphasis added). Thus, these provisions suggest that "action" based on the relevant provisions would include all stages of a dispute, including the "bringing [of] a case", consultations, and panel proceedings.10
9. In addition, Article 7, which forms part of Part III of the Subsidies Agreement (entitled "Actionable Subsidies"), serves as context for the term "exempt from actions." Article 7 provides procedures (including consultations, panel proceedings, and remedies) to enforce the legal rights contained in Article 5 (on "adverse effects") and Article 6 (on "serious prejudice"). Article 7 states in its introductory phrase that its procedures apply "[e]xcept as provided in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture".11 Thus, these provisions also support reading "exempt from actions" in Article 13 to mean "not subject to" the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim". Footnote 35 of the Subsidies Agreement provides additional context that may help explain that "exempt from action" includes not resorting to dispute settlement. Footnote 35, which deals with "non-actionable"12 subsidies, states that "[t]he provisions of Parts III [on actionable subsidies] and V [on countervailing measures] shall not be invoked regarding measures considered non-actionable in accordance with the provisions of Part IV".13 As otherwise relevant provisions cannot be "invoked" for non-actionable subsidies, footnote 35 supports reading " exempt from action" as not resorting to dispute settlement by asserting legal claims.
10. This interpretation of "exempt from actions" meshes with the object and purpose of the Agriculture Agreement. The Agreement represents the outcome of long and difficult negotiations to move towards the "long-term objective . . . to provide for substantial progressive reductions in agricultural support and protection sustained over an agreed period of time, resulting in correcting and preventing restrictions and distortions in world agricultural markets".14 Members therefore agreed to the Peace Clause, recognizing that agricultural subsidies could not be eliminated immediately and needed, under certain conditions, to be exempted from the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 subsidies disciplines.
C. CONCLUSION: BRAZIL MAY NOT BRING, AND THE PANEL MAY NOT ADJUDICATE, A SUBSIDIES AGREEMENT OR GATT 1994 ARTICLE XVI ACTION AGAINST US MEASURES CONFORMING TO THE PEACE CLAUSE
11. Brazil's approach ­ that both the applicability of the Peace Clause and Brazil's Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 Article XVI claims be considered at the same time ­ would contravene the plain meaning of the Peace Clause by subjecting US measures to the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim". Under Brazil's approach, the US measures would be subject to an action based on the
10 As further support for the fact that "action" includes dispute settlement, DSU Article 3.10 provides that: "It is understood that requests for conciliation and the use of the dispute settlement procedures should not be intended or considered as contentious acts . . ." (emphasis added).
11 Subsidies Agreement, Article 7.1. 12 The ordinary meaning of the term "actionable" is "[a]ffording ground for an action at law". The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, vol. 1, at 22. 13 Subsidies Agreement, Article 10 fn. 35 (emphasis added). 14 Agriculture Agreement, preamble (third paragraph).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-14
corresponding provisions of the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 at the same time that the Panel would be reviewing the applicability of the Peace Clause. Brazil's approach would ignore the plain meaning of the provisions of the Peace Clause exempting these measures from actions.
12. Accordingly, the United States respectfully requests the Panel to find that measures that conform to the Peace Clause are exempt from any action, including action under the DSU, based on the corresponding provisions of the Subsidies Agreement and the GATT 1994. As a result, the United States is not required to defend those measures in any action based on Brazilian claims exempted by the Peace Clause.

ANNEX A-3

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-15

ARGENTINA'S THIRD PARTY INITIAL BRIEF
10 June 2003
1. Argentina would like to thank the Panel for the opportunity to submit, as third party to the dispute, written comments concerning whether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA) precludes the Panel from considering Brazil´s claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM Agreement) in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions of Article 13 remain unfulfilled. To that respect, Argentina states the following:
2. The text of Article 13 of the AoA does not require the Panel to make a preliminary finding on the applicability of the peace clause before examining Brazil´s claims under the SCM Agreement or GATT 1994. If the negotiators had considered such preliminary finding was necessary, they would have set it forth.
3. Indeed, a textual analysis of Article 13 of the AoA reveals that "actions", and not the analysis of claims under Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 or 6 of the SCM Agreement, can only be precluded if all conditions established in paragraphs b) (ii) or c) (ii) of the referred Article 13 are met.
4. To that regard, the Appellate Body has established:
"The duty of a treaty interpreter is to examine the words of the treaty to determine the intentions of the parties. This should be done in accordance with the principles of treaty interpretation set out in Article 31 of the Vienna Convention. But these principles of interpretation neither require nor condone the imputation into a treaty of words that are not there or the importation into a treaty of concepts that were not intended."1
 The terms "exempt from actions" as stated in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture:
5. From Argentina´s point of view, in the context of Article 13 of the AoA the words "exempt from actions" do not amount to an impossibility to request a panel procedure. "Exempt from actions" means that a finding of inconsistency with Articles XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of SCM Agreement will not be possible if the legal requirements for the exemption are fulfilled. The immediate context of the terms "exempt from actions" -i.e., paragraphs b) and c)- confirms this interpretation since that exemption require a particular threshold, i.e., that domestic support measures and export subsidies "conform fully" (to different provisions of the AoA).
6. Nevertheless, it is precisely through the panel procedures that the fulfilment of those legal requirements will be determined. Argentina agrees with Brazil´s statement in paragraph 6 of its Brief that the word "actions" in the context of Article 13 of the AoA refers to decisions of WTO competent bodies, such as the DSB when it discharges its duties by establishing a panel. A different interpretation would imply giving the measures allegedly covered by the Peace Clause a character of absolute immunity, independent of whether the legal requirements established in Article 13 are fulfilled or not. This would contradict the principle of in dubio mitius, constituting a more onerous interpretation of the treaty provisions
1 Appellate Body Report, India-Patents, adopted 16 January 1998, WT/DS50/AB/R, para. 45. (Emphasis added).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-16
7. Therefore, the words "exempt from actions" do not preclude a Panel from considering a claim under the SCM Agreement or GATT 1994 while it decides whether the Peace Clause conditions have been fulfilled.
8. Argentina considers that there is no doubt that "the Peace Clause currently continues to exempt conforming measures from actions under the corresponding provisions of the GATT 1994 and the Subsidies Agreement".2 Indeed, the key words in Article 13 b) (ii) and c) (ii) of the AoA are "that conform fully" and "provided that" and "that conform fully", respectively. These words imply that the exception is not absolute, but rather subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions. When considering the interpretative issues for purposes of the Panel's question at paragraph 4 of its Brief, the US seems to omit this issue by stating that what appears to be in dispute is the nature of the treatment of conforming measures under the Peace Clause. However, from Argentina's point of view, what is important here is to determine at this stage of the proceedings the treatment under the Peace Clause of measures that are supposed not to be in conformity with the legal requirements needed to be exempted from actions.
9. In addition, the fulfilment of the legal conditions set forth under Article 13 is a matter of fact that necessarily requires to be elucidated during panel procedures. If not, how can this issue be elucidated where, as in the present case, the US did not state which was its 1992 domestic support level and did not answer the specific questions during the consultations? Only through panel proceedings could those issues be elucidated.
10. On the other hand, as Brazil stated in paragraph 17 of its Brief3, there is no WTO provision obliging a Member to present evidence relating to the Peace Clause in a manner that is divorced from factual evidence and allegations under the SCM Agreement and/or GATT 1994. As stated by Brazil in paragraphs 13 and 14 of its Brief, according to Article 11 of the DSU a panel must make an objective assessment of the facts of the case and not of part of them before examining others, specially when, as in the case at hand, there is an overlap between the evidence related to the requirements of Art. 13 of the AoA and the evidence related to the actionable and prohibited subsidy claims.
11. Argentina considers that the text of Article 13 of the AoA does not ban a Panel from considering altogether a defence invoked under the Peace Clause and the allegations of inconsistency under GATT 1994 or the SCM Agreement. If a preliminary ruling on the applicability of the Peace Clause were necessary before being able to examine Brazil´s claims under the SCM Agreement or GATT 1994, the terms "exempt from actions" would have too broad a sense. It would amount to the creation of a new obligations for Members clearly not envisaged in the text of Art. 13.
12. Finally , the same reasoning could apply to other preliminary issues, such us the objections to the consistency of a Panel´s terms of reference with Article 6.2 of the DSU or the general exceptions under Article XX of GATT 1994. However, different Panels and the Appellate Body have made their findings on those issues altogether with their findings regarding substantive claims.
 Other relevant provisions of the covered agreements:
13. The SCM Agreement is applicable both for agricultural and non-agricultural products. It is true that Article 7 of the SCM Agreement states that the request of consultations is subject to Article 13 of the AoA. However, in the case at hand the US did not put it forward neither during
2 US Initial Brief on Question Posed by Panel, 5 June 2003. 3 Brazil´s Brief on Preliminary Issue Regarding the "Peace Clause" of the Agreement on Agriculture, 5 June 2003.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-17
consultations nor during the meetings where the establishment of the Panel was requested, thus engaging itself in such procedures.
 Other considerations that should guide the assessment of this issue :
14. Argentina considers that the provisions contained in Article 13 of the AoA have an exceptional nature. This would imply that the Member who alleges to be protected by the Peace Clause has the burden of proving the fulfilment of its legal requirements. As long as the US does not demonstrates prima facie that it fulfils all the conditions that would allow a protection against a claim by virtue of Article 13 of the AoA, the Panel should consider as appropriate the claims under Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement.
15. Finally, as stated by Brazil in paragraphs 13 and 14 of its Brief, according to DSU Article 11 a panel must make an objective assessment of the facts of the case and not of part of them before examining others, specially when, as in the case at hand, there is a need to clarify closely related issues of fact that relate both to the fulfilment of the conditions set forth by the Peace Clause and to the substantive claims regarding actionable and prohibited subsidies.
Conclusion
16. According to the above statements, Argentina considers that Article 13 of the AoA does not preclude the Panel from hearing evidence and considering Brazil´s claims under the SCM Agreement or GATT 1994 while it decides whether the Peace Clause conditions of Article 13 have or have not been met.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-18
ANNEX A-4
AUSTRALIA'S WRITTEN COMMENTS
10 June 2003
1. I refer to your faxed letter of 28 May 2003 in which you invited third parties to the dispute to submit any written comments they may have in relation to the following:
whether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions of Article 13 remain unfulfilled. In particular, the Panel invite the parties to explain their interpretation of the words "exempt from action" as used in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as bringing to the Panel's attention any other relevant provisions of the covered agreements and any other relevant considerations which the parties consider should guide the Panel's consideration of this issue. For greater clarity, the Panel invites the parties, during this initial stage of the proceedings, to focus on matters of legal interpretation, rather than upon the submission of any factual evidence that might be associated with the substantive elements of Article 13.
2. Please note that, for the purposes of Australia's comments in relation to the issues identified in the previous paragraph, references to "Article 13" refer to Article 13(a)(ii), 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii). There is nothing in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture ­ nor indeed in the Dispute Settlement Understanding ("the DSU") ­ that would preclude the Panel from considering claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions of Article 13 remain unfulfilled.
3. Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture provides a limited, conditional and time-limited exemption from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 and certain provisions of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures ("the specified provisions") in respect of measures which conform fully to the respective provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture and to Article 13 itself. Article 13 does not preclude per se claims based on the specified provisions, that is, Article 13 does not prevent the specified provisions being invoked. Rather, Article 13 is in the nature of an "affirmative defence" for measures which are inconsistent with the specified provisions.1
4. Viewing Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture as an affirmative defence gives proper meaning to that provision, as well as to Article 21 of the Agreement on Agriculture and Articles 3.1, 6.9 and 7.1 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. This view would also be consistent with the interpretive principle of effectiveness, which the Appellate Body has found should guide the interpretation of the WTO Agreement.2
5. In assessing an affirmative defence based on Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, the proper application of that provision would require the Panel to consider the conditions listed in Article 13 ("the prescribed conditions"), that is:
1 See, for example, United States ­ Measures Affecting Imports of Woven Wool Shirts and Blouses from India, WT/DS33/AB/R, page 16.
2 United States ­ Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act of 2000, WT/DS217/AB/R, WT/DS234/AB/R, paragraph 271.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-19
 as appropriate, whether the measure at issue constitutes a domestic support measure or an export subsidy within the meaning of Annex 2 to, or Articles 6 or 1(e) of, the Agreement on Agriculture; and, if so,
 as appropriate, whether the measure at issue conforms fully to the provisions of Annex 2 to, or Article 6 or Part V of, the Agreement on Agriculture; and
 as appropriate, whether measures falling within the provisions of Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture grant support to a specific commodity not in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year.
6. Only if the Panel determines that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is relevant because the prescribed conditions are met would it need to consider whether the measures at issue are "exempt from actions based on" the specified provisions. In that event, the Panel would need to consider whether the measures at issue are "free or released from a duty or liability to which others are held"3 in relation to a proceeding "found[ed], buil[t] or construct[ed] on"4 the specified provisions. In other words, if the prescribed conditions are met, a Member will be immune from liability for a measure's inconsistency with the specified provisions for the period for which Article 13 applies. 7. In this dispute, there is disagreement between the parties to the dispute whether the measures at issue conform fully to the respective provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture. However, disagreement between the parties to the dispute does not serve to limit the Panel's mandate. There is no provision in the covered agreements that a disagreement between the parties to the dispute about conformity would serve as a barrier to a Panel's legal mandate to examine claims in accordance with the provisions of Article 3.2 and 11 of the DSU. There is, therefore, no requirement that the Panel reach a conclusion that certain conditions of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture remain unfulfilled before considering claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.
3 Black's Law Dictionary, Seventh Edition, Bryan A Garner, Editor in Chief, West Group, St Paul, Minn., 1999, page 593.
4 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Ed. Lesley Brown, Volume 1, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1993, page 187.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-20
ANNEX A-5
COMMENTS BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ON CERTAIN ISSUES RAISED ON AN INITIAL BASIS BY THE PANEL
10 June 2002
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................. 20 II. THE QUESTION AT ISSUE FALLS WITHIN THE PANEL'S DISCRETION
AS TO THE ORGANIZATION OF ITS OWN PROCEDURES....................................... 21 III. SEVERAL FACTORS MILITATE IN FAVOUR OF EXAMINING THE
EVIDENCE AND ARGUMENTS PRESENTED IN RESPECT OF ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AT THE SAME TIME AS THE OTHER CLAIMS........................................................................................ 23 A. THE APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE IS DEPENDENT ON THE EXAMINATION OF QUESTIONS OF SUBSTANCE ......................................... 23 B. ASSESSING THE APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE 13 AS A PRELIMINARY MEASURE MAY DELAY THE ISSUANCE OF THE REPORT ...................................................................................... 23 C. THIRD PARTY DUE PROCESS RIGHTS MAY BE INFRINGED BY A DECISION TO SPLIT THE PROCEDURE INTO THREE STAGES .............................................................................................. 23 IV. CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................................... 24
I. INTRODUCTION
1. The Panel has asked the Parties to this dispute, together with the third parties, to comment on the following question:
[W]hether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions in Article 13 remain unfulfilled. In particular, the Panel invites the parties to explain their interpretation of the words "exempt from actions" as used in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as bringing to the Panel's attention any other relevant provisions of the covered agreements and any other relevant considerations which the parties consider should guide the Panel's consideration of this issue.
2. The European Communities understands the positions of the two parties as follows. The United States is arguing for a multi stage procedure ­ first the Panel should deal with this initial issue, second, it should examine whether the US measures at issue fall under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, and finally, and only if the measures do not fall under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, should the Panel examine whether these measures are consistent with the Agreement on

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-21
Subsidies and Countervailing Duties (SCM Agreement).1 On the other hand, Brazil considers that the Panel should, after settling this initial issue, examine Brazil's claims under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement simultaneously, treating Brazil's claims under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture as a threshold issue.2 Neither party appears to suggest that this issue is anything other than a substantive issue. 3
3. The parties submissions concern the manner in which the Panel should organise its procedures. In other words, should it hear arguments and evidence on Brazil's claims under Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement before it has decided whether the United States can avail itself of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture. The European Communities considers that this issue falls within the Panel's discretion as to the organization of its procedures. Such discretion is, nevertheless, not without its limits. The European Communities considers that there are a number of factors which require the Panel to exercise its discretion so as to examine the evidence and arguments presented by the parties with respect to both Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture and Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement at the same time. The European Communities sets out its arguments on these issues in more detail in the sections below.
II. THE QUESTION AT ISSUE FALLS WITHIN THE PANEL'S DISCRETION AS TO THE ORGANISATION OF ITS OWN PROCEDURES
4. Both parties seem to consider that the Panel is required to rule, as a matter of substance, on whether the US measures fall under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, and if not, whether they are consistent with Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement. Brazil's contention that the US measures are inconsistent with Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement, because they are not covered by Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture requires the Panel to determine whether Article 13 is applicable. Similarly, the United States' claim that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture prevents the Panel from ruling on Brazil's other claims requires adjudication of the issue of the applicability of Article 13.
5. The European Communities finds support for its view that the choice between a single and multistage procedure is a matter for the Panel's discretion in the fact that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is not set up as a specific rule which can be distinguished from the normal DSU procedures. Thus, for instance, Article 13 is not mentioned in Annex 2 of the DSU listing special or additional rules and procedures contained in the covered agreements. Moreover, Article 19 of the Agreement on Agriculture states that the provisions of Article XXII and XXIII GATT, as elaborated in the DSU, apply to the Agreement on Agriculture. Consequently, there are no special rules foreseen in respect of Article 13 in the event that a Member requests dispute settlement in which it may be raised as an issue.
6. In order further to demonstrate that this is a matter for the Panel's discretion, it is instructive to consider the United States' arguments on the meaning of exempt from action". The United States argues that the meaning of the term "exempt from action" is that no formal proceedings can be
1 In para. 2 of its initial brief, the US argues
"[t]he United States respectfully requests the Panel to organize its procedures to first determine whether Brazil may maintain any action based on provisions exempted by the Peace Clause." 2 Brazil concludes its initial brief as follows:
"[ ..] Brazil requests that this Panel find that it is not precluded from hearing evidence and considering Brazil's claims under the ASCM or Article XVI of GATT 1994 without first concluding that the peace clause conditions of AoA Article 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) remain unfulfilled." 3 For instance, that the arguments on Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement are not within the terms of reference of the Panel.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-22
launched with respect to the matter exempt from action, and that in the WTO, this would mean that a Member could not request consultations and later request the establishment of a panel.4 The implications of this are unclear however. The logical conclusion would appear to be that the United States is suggesting that Brazil should first bring a panel arguing that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is not applicable, and then (if it is successful) bring a second panel to adjudicate its claims under Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement? This notion seems implausible for a number of reasons. First, in considering whether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is applicable, the first Panel would not be adjudicating a dispute but would be requested to issue a declaratory judgement. Second, a Member is not under an obligation to act consistently with Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture ­ failing to respect Article 13 implies that a Member no longer enjoys the protection thereof. Consequently, and third, Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture can only be seen as a defence against a claim brought under other aspects of the WTO Agreements which regulate the provision of subsidies. It would seem bizarre if, before Brazil could bring a claim with respect to subsidies which it considered did not respect the US's WTO obligations, Brazil had first to establish that potential US defences did not apply.
7. The European Communities notes that, although this situation is the logical continuation of the US interpretation of the term "exempt from action", the United States does not suggest that Brazil should have launched two successive WTO panels. Rather it maintains that the Panel's hearing argument and evidence on Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement would amount to an "action" which cannot be brought against it until it is determined that the US measures do not conform to Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture. Why the United States considers that hearing evidence would amount to such a prohibited "action", while requesting consultations or the establishment of a panel does not amount to maintaining an "action" is unclear. Indeed, the European Communities would presume that the United States would agree that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture has the ultimate effect of not requiring any subsidy maintained consistently with Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture and otherwise inconsistent with the SCM Agreement to be brought into conformity with the provisions of the SCM Agreement (typically through its withdrawal). For the European Communities, therefore, the issue of whether a measure falls under Article 13 is necessarily a question which a Panel must decide before it decides whether the measure might violate Article XVI GATT or the SCM Agreement. However, the mere fact that the Article 13 issues must be decided before the other claims are decided does not imply that a panel, when it is examining evidence and considering arguments with respect to Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, is precluded from hearing the evidence and arguments relating to Article XVI GATT or the SCM Agreement until after it has decided on the applicability of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
8. In conclusion, the Panel has substantial discretion in deciding how it will manage these issues. Article 12.1 DSU makes it quite clear that the Working Procedures set out in Appendix 3 of the DSU may be departed from if the Panel decides this is appropriate. Therefore, it is a matter for the Panel's discretion whether to arrange a multistage procedure as proposed by the United States or a single stage procedure as proposed by Brazil.
9. The European Communities considers that the normal procedure proposed by Brazil should be followed by the Panel for the reasons set out in the next section.
4 See paras. 7 and 8 of the US initial Submission.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-23
III. SEVERAL FACTORS MILITATE IN FAVOUR OF EXAMINING THE EVIDENCE AND ARGUMENTS PRESENTED IN RESPECT OF ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AT THE SAME TIME AS THE OTHER CLAIMS
10. The European Communities submits that the Panel should consider evidence and argument relating to both the applicability of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, and the other provisions which Brazil has alleged the United States has acted inconsistently with.
A. THE APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE IS DEPENDENT ON THE EXAMINATION OF QUESTIOnS OF SUBSTANCE
11. As the United States and Brazil appear to have recognised, the question of the applicability of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is dependent on the assessment of substantive issues, notably the conformity of the measures in question with other provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture. In order for the Panel to establish whether Article 13 applies, the Panel will have to consider detailed arguments and evidence. For that reason, the applicability of Article 13 should be subjected to the normally applicable procedures by which Panel deal with complex issues of fact and law and not adjudicated in some form of preliminary procedure. The European Communities note, for instance, that this was the approach taken by the panel in the United States ­ Export Restraints dispute, which refused to rule on a number of preliminary objections brought by the United States (as the defendant) which went to the substance of the matter.5
B. ASSESSING THE APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE 13 AS A PRELIMINARY MEASURE MAY DELAY THE ISSUANCE OF THE REPORT
12. In the same vein, it can be noted that hearing evidence and considering arguments on the applicability of Article 13 would inevitably require a considerable amount of time, as will hearing and assessing the arguments and evidence on the other issues which could only be considered after the preliminary decision on Article 13 was taken. Given the substantial number of claims brought, their complex nature, and the substantial interest in this dispute from third parties, the Panel may, if it splits up the dispute into three stages, have problems issuing its report within nine months, as it is required to do under the Article 12.9 DSU.
13. The European Communities also has some sympathy for the concerns set out by Brazil, in section V of its Initial Submission, as to the effect of splitting the procedure on Brazil's ability to present its case.
C. THIRD PARTY DUE PROCESS RIGHTS MAY BE INFRINGED BY A DECISION TO SPLIT THE PROCEDURE INTO THREE STAGES
14. As the Panel is aware, Article 10.3 DSU provides that third parties are entitled to receive the submissions of the parties to the first meeting with the Panel. If the first panel meeting is limited to considering the applicability of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture and thus parties submissions are limited to that question, the third parties will not have an opportunity to be heard on issues other than Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture. If the Panel decides to adopt a three stage procedure, in order to avoid such a situation arising, the European Communities respectfully submits that the Panel should make provision to ensure that third parties have adequate access, and the opportunity to be heard on all matters (that is, also in the third stage of procedures). Inevitably,
5 Panel report, United States ­ Measures Treating Export Restraints as Subsidies, WT/DS194/R, adopted 23 August 2001, para. 8.2.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-24
however, setting up such a procedure will involve additional work for both the Panel and the Secretariat.
IV. CONCLUSION
15. In conclusion, the European Communities respectfully submits that, while the Panel is obliged to decide on the applicability of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture before it may take a decision with respect to Brazil's claims under Article XVI GATT and the SCM Agreement it is not precluded from considering evidence or argument on these claims until after it has decided on the applicability of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture. As the European Communities has explained above, there are several reasons militating in favour of the Panel considering all arguments and evidence simultaneously.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-25
ANNEX A-6
INDIA'S COMMENTS ON PRELIMINARY ISSUE REGARDING THE PEACE CLAUSE OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE
10 June 2003
1. India thanks the panel for being provided an opportunity to comment on the submissions of Brazil and the United States on the following question concerning Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture posed by the Panel:
Whether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions of Article 13 remain unfulfilled.1
2. India notes that both Brazil and the United States evidently agree that "exempt from actions" means that a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic or export support measures that are in compliance with various provisions of the Peace Clause. In other words, a measure must be in conformity with: (a) provisions of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture in respect of green box domestic support measures; (b) provisions of Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture in respect of amber and blue box support measures; and (c) Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture as reflected in each member's Schedule in respect of export subsidies to attract the exemption from obtaining a remedy under the Peace Clause.
3. However the United States seems to argue in various paragraphs of its submission, including in paragraphs 7, 9 and 12, that this exemption extends to "any action, including action under the DSU, based on the corresponding provisions of the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994". The United States thereby suggests that resort cannot be had to the dispute settlement proceedings by asserting legal claims in respect of measures claimed by a Member to be Peace Clause protected.
4. Thus, on the question posed by the Panel, the United States is of the view that the Panel should organize its procedures to first determine whether Brazil may maintain any "action" based on provisions exempted by the Peace Clause. On the other hand, Brazil has asserted that the phrase "exempt from actions" in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture does not compel the Panel to first make a Peace Clause finding before considering the substance of Brazil's other claims.
5. The United States seeks to interpret "action" to "include all stages of a dispute, including the "bringing [of] a case," consultations, and panel proceedings." Subsequently, the United States suggests a reading of "exempt from actions" in Article 13 to mean "not subject to" the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim" or "not resorting to dispute settlement by asserting legal claims".
6. In India's view, if the interpretation of "exempt from actions" under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as sought by the United States, extends to exemption from "any action"
1 The Panel also "invites the parties to explain their interpretation of the words `exempt from actions' as used in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as bringing to the Panel's attention any other relevant provisions of the covered agreements and any other relevant considerations which the parties consider should guide the Panel's consideration of this issue."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-26
such that resorting to dispute settlement by asserting legal claims is precluded in respect of Peace Clause protected measures, then consequences follow that have systemic implications. This interpretation would result in countries being precluded from even resorting to the dispute settlement process in respect of measures claimed by the country to be complained against to be conforming to the Peace Clause unless there is a prior finding on the lack of conformity of the measure with the Peace Clause. This interpretation of "exempt from actions" taken to its logical end would imply that even consultations under the DSU cannot be sought in respect of such a measure, unless there is a prior finding on non-conformity of the measure with the Peace Clause. A complaining country would therefore have to resort to the dispute settlement process twice in respect of the same measure; first, for obtaining a finding whether the measure is in conformity with the Peace Clause and, if not, then whether the measure is in conformity with obligations under various WTO Agreements. In India's view this result is neither desirable nor envisaged under the DSU or any other covered agreements.
7. India believes that neither the phrase "exempt from actions" nor Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture compel the Panel to first make a peace clause finding before considering the substance of Brazil's claims in various issues in this dispute. India is of the view that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is not a "special and additional" rule set out in Appendix 2 to the DSU. Article 19 of the Agreement on Agriculture makes all DSU provisions applicable to the Agreement on Agriculture. Thus there is no legal basis under the DSU or any of the covered agreements that would support the two stage approach suggested by the United States in this dispute whereby the Panel would first make a Peace Clause finding before considering claims on other agreements.
8. In conclusion, India believes that the phrase "exempt from actions" when viewed in the context of DSU provisions does not require the Panel to first make a Peace Clause non-compliance finding before hearing or considering any of the evidence or arguments relating to the various claims under other agreements.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-27
ANNEX A-7
THIRD PARTY COMMENTS BY NEW ZEALAND ON PRELIMINARY ISSUE REGARDING
ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE ("THE PEACE CLAUSE")
10 June 2003
New Zealand welcomes the opportunity to comment on the preliminary issue addressed in the Panel's 28 May 2003 request:
"Whether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion of the Panel that certain conditions of Article 13 remain unfulfilled ..."
In New Zealand's view, a Panel is not required to make any prior conclusion concerning the applicability of Article 13 (the "Peace Clause") before proceeding to hear evidence and submissions relating to substance of legal claims brought under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (ASCM) and GATT Article XVI. New Zealand notes in this regard that the overlapping nature of the evidence required to establish both the applicability of the Peace Clause as well as actionable and prohibited subsidies claims would make a separation of submissions and hearings on each aspect artificial.
In relation to the Panel's request for views on the term "exempt from actions" in Article 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii), New Zealand considers that these words simply mean that a Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic or export support measures that are otherwise protected by the "Peace Clause". New Zealand does not consider that this phrase should be interpreted so as to suggest that substantive claims under the ASCM and GATT Article XVI can only be addressed in written or oral submissions after a Panel has made a ruling that the Peace Clause apply.
In summary, New Zealand considers that the Panel is not precluded from hearing evidence and considering claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures or Article XVI of the GATT without first concluding that Peace Clause conditions remain unfulfilled.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-28

ANNEX A-8

SUBMISSION OF PARAGUAY COMMENTS ON THE "PEACE CLAUSE"
10 June 2003
Paraguay does not see how, under the provisions of the Dispute Settlement Understanding (DSU), the Panel can establish that a matter calls for a "preliminary and special ruling" when the DSU does not provide for such a procedure.
If this were so, many complaints would be subject to the prior demonstration of the existence of the conditions for bringing the action, when in fact, what needs to be resolved is the main subject of the dispute and the effects caused by the failure to comply with the rules and regulations of world trade.
Paraguay considers that to set a precedent of this kind would be to undermine the DSU's purpose of providing a flexible and prompt dispute settlement procedure, since countries would be faced with an unnecessary delay in the process involving costs and time beyond their "predictions".
Since there is no established procedural rule in this respect, the Panel must proceed to the analysis of the substantive issue, and permit the parties, in this case especially Brazil as complainant ­ and by extension Paraguay ­ to demonstrate that the subsidies and support measures benefiting upland cotton have effects on trade and production by the cotton industry in the world.
Paraguay has a supreme interest in ensuring the application of strict justice with respect to this complaint, since cotton production is the sustenance of the poorest segments of its population. Indeed, 70 per cent of the country's small farmers depend on cotton production for their living.
As already stated in the past, of Paraguay's population of approximately 5,300,000, some 150,000 families work in cotton production, and the damage caused by the kinds of subsidies and support measures at issue in this case have caused an exodus of this rural population to urban areas with no relief or solution in sight, further aggravating the country's economic situation.
In view of the above, Paraguay considers that since Article XIII is not a rule forming part of the procedural system established by the DSU, a preliminary ruling by the Panel on the "Peace Clause" would be inappropriate.

ANNEX A-9

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-29

BRAZIL'S COMMENTS ON THE BRIEFS BY THE UNITED STATES AND THE THIRD PARTIES ON CERTAIN PRELIMINARY ISSUES
REGARDING THE "PEACE CLAUSE" OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE
13 June 2003

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................ 30
II. THE US TEXTUAL AND CONTEXTUAL ARGUMENTS CONCERNING "EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS" ARE INCONSISTENT WITH THE MULTILATERAL NATURE OF "ACTIONS" UNDER THE DSU AND WITH US CONDUCT IN THIS DISPUTE ............................................ 30
III. THE NARROW INTERPRETATION OF THE WORD "ACTION" SUGGESTED BY THE UNITED STATES IS NOT SUPPORTED BY ALL THREE AUTHENTIC VERSIONS OF THE AOA.................................................. 32
IV. THE OVERLY-BROAD US DEFINITION OF "EXEMPT FROM ACTION" IMPROPERLY CREATES NEW OBLIGATIONS AND PROCEDURES NOT CONTEMPLATED IN THE AOA OR THE DSU .... 33
V. THE US PROPOSAL FOR A SEPARATE PROCEEDING FOR PEACE CLAUSE ISSUES WOULD EFFECTIVELY ADD AOA ARTICLE 13 TO THE CLOSED LIST OF SPECIAL AND ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS IN DSU APPENDIX 2 AND GIVE AOA ARTICLE 13 A SCOPE THAT WAS NOT INTENDED BY AOA DRAFTERS ........................................................ 33
VI. A SPECIAL PEACE CLAUSE PROCEDURE WOULD AMOUNT TO HAVING THE PANEL ISSUE A DECLARATORY JUDGMENT FOR THE US AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE........................................................................ 35
VII. CONCLUSION............................................................................................................. 37

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-30
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Brazil welcomes the opportunity to provide its comments regarding the third party submissions of Argentina, Australia, the European Communities, India, New Zealand, and Paraguay filed on 10 June 2003, and to respond to the Initial Brief of the United States of America on the Questions Posed by the Panel (US Initial Brief), filed on 5 June 2003.
II. THE US TEXTUAL AND CONTEXTUAL ARGUMENTS CONCERNING "EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS" ARE INCONSISTENT WITH THE MULTILATERAL NATURE OF "ACTIONS" UNDER THE DSU AND WITH US CONDUCT IN THIS DISPUTE
2. The customary rules of interpretation of public international law do not support the United States' reading of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA). The United States relies on a legal dictionary for a definition of "action" and then concludes incorrectly that "action" means any "proceeding in a court of justice" including any "legal steps to establish a claim".1 This interpretation misreads Article 13 because it starts from fundamentally mistaken premises.
3. A WTO panel is not a "court" because the WTO panel process is founded on, and guided by, collective action by the Members. A lawsuit in a US or Brazilian court of law starts automatically when a plaintiff takes the "action" of filing papers that are in the proper form. But a DSU panel proceeding commences only when the Members of the WTO take collective "action" to establish the panel. The DSU rules "elaborate and apply"2 the rules in GATT Article XXIII:2, which speak of an investigation by the CONTRACTING PARTIES ­ which under GATT Article XXV:1 are all the contracting parties "acting jointly". Whereas a US or Brazilian judge has broad powers conferred on him or her constitutionally, a WTO panel is a body of limited jurisdiction acting only with powers delegated to it by the DSB. For example, defending parties challenge claims as going beyond the terms of reference under DSU 6.2, because the terms of reference define the limits of the powers delegated to the panel by the DSB through the DSB's action to establish the panel.
4. The "negative consensus" provisions in DSU Article 16.4 further support Brazil's position that "action" in AoA Article 13 must be interpreted as joint action by WTO Members. Decisions of a court are directly and immediately binding on the parties to the litigation, but such is not the case for decisions of a panel or the Appellate Body. Instead, the drafters of the DSU decided that the Members acting jointly would retain ultimate control of whether a panel or Appellate Body report has any binding effect. Similarly, the recommendations and rulings referred to in DSU Articles 21 and 22 are not recommendations and rulings of a panel or the Appellate Body, but are recommendations and rulings of the DSB. Accordingly, DSU 21.7 refers to further actions that the DSB must consider when a matter (not an "action") has been raised by a developing country.
5. The United States misinterprets DSU Article 3.7.3 In this provision ("Before bringing a case, a Member shall exercise its judgment as to whether action under these procedures would be fruitful"), "actions" could and should be read in a collective context, as referring to the DSB's action to adopt a panel report and (if need be) to authorize suspension of concessions. DSU Article 3.7 transposed a provision in the 1979 Understanding Regarding Notification, Dispute Settlement and Surveillance4
1 US Initial Brief, para. 7. 2 AoA Article 19: provides that "The provisions of Articles XXII and XXIII of GATT 1994, as elaborated and applied by the Dispute Settlement Understanding, shall apply to consultations and the settlement of disputes under this Agreement." 3 US Initial Brief, para. 8. 4 Adopted on 28 November 1979; BISD 26S/210. The full text is set out in the GATT Analytical Index (6th Ed., 1995) at page 632. DSU Article 3.7 transposes paragraph 4 of the Agreed Description of the

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-31
which refers to "action under Article XXIII:2." As discussed in Brazil's Initial Brief, such "action" has always meant joint action by the CONTRACTING PARTIES, not individual action by a particular contracting party. Article 3.7 simply restates the common-sense advice that litigants must consider in advance whether the persuasive effect of a collective determination of rule violation and a collective authorization of suspension of concessions would be useful in eliminating the concrete problem. It cannot be read to suggest that any Member should be able to pressure another into dropping a valid legal claim by arguing that enforcing rights through litigation is not "fruitful."
6. The United States also misinterprets DSU Article 4.5 ("before resorting to further action under this Understanding, Members should attempt to obtain satisfactory adjustment of the matter.").5 Read correctly, DSU Article 4.5 simply refers to the "action" of the DSB to grant a request for establishment of a panel.6 Thus, Article 4.5 urges a Member to attempt to obtain satisfactory adjustment of the "matter" (not the "action") before it requests the DSB to take action to establish a panel.
7. The United States also cites footnote 35 of the SCM Agreement ("The provisions of Parts III and V shall not be invoked regarding measures considered non-actionable in accordance with the provisions of Part IV.").7 Yet "shall not be invoked" is a different legal standard that goes substantially farther than "shall be . . . exempt from actions." Under footnote 35, no DSB authorization could be obtained to establish a panel against a non-actionable subsidy granted by another Member. By contrast, AoA Article 13 exempts certain agricultural subsidies from actions by the DSB adopting a panel or Appellate Body report or authorizing suspension of concessions, but only under certain conditions. The DSB can only take "actions" against such subsidies if it decides that those conditions are unfulfilled (based on the recommendations in the report of the panel and/or Appellate Body). But this conditionality means that a panel must address the conditions of the peace clause if they are invoked by the Member providing the domestic support ­ as the United States appears to have indicated it will do in this dispute. If the drafters had intended to protect agricultural subsidies against even an invocation of Part II and III of the SCM Agreement, they would have said so, and they did not.
8. The United States argues in paragraph 9 that its subsidies are even "exempt" from consultations under the DSU. Paragraph 9 highlights the logical challenges presented by the US argument--particularly in light of the fact, discussed below, that Article 13 does not create any exception to the normal rules of WTO dispute settlement.
9. Moreover, the United States' own conduct in this dispute is at odds with paragraph 9 of the US brief. Brazil's consultation request dated 3 October 2002 clearly stated that "the United States has no basis to assert a defence under Article 13(b)(ii) . . . [and] Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture . . ".8 Yet, the United States said nothing during three rounds of consultations about any requirement for a separate panel proceeding regarding the peace clause. Brazil's panel request also referred to the lack of any basis for the United States to assert a peace clause "defence".9 The DSB minutes reflect that the United States did not mention the peace clause at all in the meetings of the
Customary Practice of the GATT in the Field of Dispute Settlement (Article XXIII:2) annexed to the 1979 Understanding; paragraph 4 appears on page 635.
5 US Initial Brief, para. 8. 6 DSU Article 4.5 was a transposition of paragraph 4 in the Agreed Description of the Customary Practice of the GATT in the Field of Dispute Settlement annexed to the (Tokyo Round) Understanding Regarding Notification (BISD 26S/210; The full text is set out in the GATT Analytical Index on page 635). That provision refers to "action under Article XXIII:2." As discussed by Brazil, such "actions" are multilateral actions by the CONTRACTING PARTIES, not individual action by a particular contracting party. 7 US Initial Brief, para. 9. 8 WT/DS267/1 at 3. 9 WT/DS267/7.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-32
DSB that considered the panel request.10 The first official US assertion regarding special procedural requirements relating to the peace clause did not come until a meeting in the office of the Director of the Legal Services Division, on 25 March 2003, one week after the Panel was established on 18 March 2003.
10. In considering the US request for a special "peace clause" proceeding, the Panel should take note that the panel and Appellate Body in the US - FSC dispute rejected US procedural claims of an allegedly defective EC consultation request. In that dispute the United States engaged in three rounds of consultations without mentioning the problem once and then attempted to raise the defect consultations request as a preliminary objection to the panel. The panel and the Appellate Body both rejected the objection. As the Appellate Body found:
It seems to us that, by engaging in consultations on three separate occasions, and not even raising its objections in the two DSB meetings at which the request for establishment of a panel was on the agenda, the United States acted as if it had accepted the establishment of the Panel in this dispute, as well as the consultations preceding such establishment. In these circumstances, the United States cannot now, in our view, assert that the European Communities' claims under Article 3 of the SCM Agreement should have been dismissed and that the Panel's findings on these issues should be reversed.11
11. In this dispute, the United States sat mute on the subject of peace clause procedures through three rounds of consultations and two DSB meetings. Had the United States raised this particular procedural issue on a timely basis, other WTO Members may have reserved their rights under DSU Article 10. To permit such an issue to be raised on such an untimely basis also denies those other Members their rights under the DSU.
III. THE NARROW INTERPRETATION OF THE WORD "ACTION" SUGGESTED BY THE UNITED STATES IS NOT SUPPORTED BY ALL THREE AUTHENTIC VERSIONS OF THE AOA
12. As argued in Brazil's Initial Brief of 5 June , Brazil believes that the word action refers to collective actions of the WTO Members, and not to actions by individual Members. Brazil further submits that the meaning the United States tries to impute to the word "action" is too narrow and inadequate.
13. Brazil recalls that the three versions of the WTO Agreements are authentic. The US interprets the word "action" in the English version as "legal process or suit". Brazil agrees that this is a possible meaning of the word, but so is "the process or condition of acting or doing"; or "a thing done, a deed, an act...; habitual or ordinary deeds".12 Therefore, the word action in the English language could mean either a legal process or a simple act or deed.
14. The French version uses the word "action" which also allows both connotations. It could have the ordinary connotation of: "ce que fait qqn et par quoi il réalise une intention ou un impulsion;" "exercice de la faculté d'agir;" but it could also have the more specific meaning of the "exercice d'un droit en justice".13
10 WT/DSB/M/143, WT/DSB/M/145. 11 WT/DS108/AB/R, "United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations", para. 165. 12 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1993 edition. 13 Le Petit Robert, Nouvelle édition ... 1982.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-33
15. The Spanish version however does not allow such interpretative flexibility. The word used in Article 13 is not the word "acción", which would allow the arguable double meaning of the English and French versions: "resultado de hacer" or "[e]n sentido procesal, derecho a acudir a un juez o tribunal ..."14 (emphasis added). The word used in Article 13 of the Spanish version is "medidas." While "medidas" could mean "disposición, prevención ... tomar, adoptar medidas"15, it could not possibly have the connotation of a legal action. Again, while the dictionary meanings of the word "acción" do include the possibility of a judicial measure, the same is not true for the word "medidas".
16. Therefore, the Panel must avoid an interpretation of Article 13 that is possible in only two of the authentic versions, while there is another plausible ­ and in fact more adequate ­ interpretation that is equally possible in all three authentic versions. The Panel must accordingly reject the narrow interpretation suggested by the United States for the word "action".
IV. THE OVERLY-BROAD US DEFINITION OF "EXEMPT FROM ACTION" IMPROPERLY CREATES NEW OBLIGATIONS AND PROCEDURES NOT CONTEMPLATED IN THE AOA OR THE DSU
17. The United States argues that the word "action" means "all stages of the dispute, including the `bringing [of] a case,' consultations, and panel proceedings".16 Brazil agrees with the arguments advanced by Argentina17, the European Communities18 and India19 that this broad US interpretation would exempt measures allegedly covered by the "peace clause" exemption from any aspect of the DSU, including consultations. As India and the European Communities correctly point out, the result would logically lead to two separate panel proceedings ­ an initial proceeding deciding the peace clause issues, and after the issuance of a decision, the initiation of a second proceeding beginning with consultations to challenge the measures under the ASCM.20 Yet, as these and other third parties highlight, there is no textual requirement or provision in the AoA, the DSU, or any other WTO provision for such a two-panel or two-stage process to resolve peace clause issues.
V. THE US PROPOSAL FOR A SEPARATE PROCEEDING FOR PEACE CLAUSE ISSUES WOULD EFFECTIVELY ADD AOA ARTICLE 13 TO THE CLOSED LIST OF SPECIAL AND ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS IN DSU APPENDIX 2 AND GIVE AOA ARTICLE 13 A SCOPE THAT WAS NOT INTENDED BY AOA DRAFTERS
18. The United States' initial brief makes no reference to DSU Appendix 2, even though this provision was a key issue raised in Brazil's 23 May letter to the Panel. Brazil repeats that Appendix 2 provides a closed list of all the "special and additional" provisions that trump the normal rules of dispute settlement under the DSU. Article 13 does not appear in Appendix 2. Set forth below are two additional reasons in support of this argument.
19. First, providing a special proceeding for determining peace clause defences would effectively add Article 13 to DSU Appendix 2. In the first dispute settlement proceeding on Guatemala Cement, the panel found that Article 17 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement (ADA) replaced the DSU system as a whole because ADA Articles 17.4-17.7 were listed as special and additional provisions in Appendix 2
14 Diccionario de la Lengua Española (Real Academia Española), vigésima segunda edición, 2001. 15 Id. 16 US Initial Brief para. 8. 17 Argentina's Third Party Initial Brief, para. 6; 18 Initial Submission by the European Communities, paras. 6-7; 19 India's comments on preliminary issue regarding the Peace Clause of the Agreement on Agriculture, para. 6. 20 Initial Submission by the European Communities, paras. 6-7; India's comments on preliminary issue regarding the Peace Clause of the Agreement on Agriculture, para. 6.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-34
even though ADA Articles 17.1-17.3 were not included.21 The Appellate Body reversed the panel's implied determination to treat ADA Articles 17.1-17.3 as special and additional rules when it found that DSU provisions generally do not apply to disputes brought pursuant to the ADA:
Article 17.3 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement is not listed in Appendix 2 of the DSU as a special or additional rule and procedure. It is not listed precisely because it provides the legal basis for consultations to be requested by a complaining Member under the Anti-Dumping Agreement.22
The special or additional provisions listed in Appendix 2 of the DSU are designed to deal with the particularities of dispute settlement relating to obligations arising under a specific covered agreement, while Article 1 of the DSU seeks to establish an integrated and comprehensive dispute settlement system for all of the covered agreements of the WTO Agreements as a whole. . . 23
20. The effect of the United States argument and interpretation of "action" in this case would be to include AoA Article 13 as a special and additional rule in Appendix 2. Were the Panel to agree with the United States, it would create a precedent for applying a special procedure whenever a peace clause defence might be invoked. However, this is precisely what the Appellate Body rejected in Guatemala Cement, emphasizing that the WTO's dispute settlement system is a unified system, not one fragmented according to topic.24
21. Second, the negotiating history confirms that AoA Article 13 was not intended to alter normal dispute settlement procedures. The concept of "due restraint" first appeared in Article 18.2 of the Agriculture text in the Dunkel Draft of December 1991, which provided:
On the basis of the commitments undertaken in the framework of this Agreement, Members will exercise due restraint in the application of their rights under the General Agreement in relation to products included in the reform programme.25
The concept of special and additional provisions and Appendix 2 then emerged during the work of the Legal Drafting Group on dispute settlement in Spring 1992. The final Legal Drafting Group DSU text dated 15 June 1992 included AoA Article 18.2 in its Appendix 2, as a special and additional provision.26
22. The United States and the EC then reached the Blair House Agreements in November 1992, providing inter alia for the Dunkel Draft text of Article 18.2 to be deleted, and for the insertion in the AoA of a text corresponding to the present Article 13. In the fall of 1993, the Institutions Group discussed both institutions and dispute settlement; the DSU text resulting from its work, as circulated on 15 November 1993, placed AoA Article 18.2 in brackets.27
23. During this period, further discussions also took place on the AoA. After a US-EU settlement in early December 1993 adjusting the Blair House deal, the Blair House changes as adjusted were
21 Guatemala ­ Anti-Dumping Investigation Regarding Portland Cement from Mexico, WT/DS60/R, 22 WT/DS60/AB/R, para. 64. 23 Id., para. 66. 24 Id., para. 67. 25 MTN/TNC/W/FA, 20 December 1991, page L.11. 26 Brazil Exhibit 1 (hereinafter Brazil will refer to its exhibits as "Exhibit Bra-1, 2 , 3 etc.") Excerpt of Draft Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes, Job No. 968, 15 June 1992. 27 Exhibit Bra-2. Excerpt of Draft Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes, 15 November 1993.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-35
made to the AoA. In the December 15, 1993 Final Act, the text of the AoA reflected those changes 28, and Appendix 2 of the DSU29 included no reference to the AoA. The negotiating record thus confirms that if negotiators had intended to include the peace clause in Appendix 2, they had ample opportunity to do so. The changes in the "peace clause" component of the Blair House agreements involved deleting former Article 18.2, which was a dispute settlement provision listed in Appendix 2, and substituting Article 13. However, although Article 13 limits the ultimate "action" that the DSB may take, as a drafting matter it is not placed together with the dispute settlement provisions of the AoA, it is not labeled as a dispute settlement provision, and it is not included in Appendix 2 of the DSU. Reading Article 13 as the United States requests would be inconsistent with DSU Article 3.2 by impermissibly altering the balance of rights and obligations in the WTO and its dispute settlement procedures.
24. Furthermore, AoA Article 13 deliberately makes no reference to any provisions relating to dispute settlement under the Agreement on Agriculture itself (Article 19) or other relevant WTO Agreements (ASCM Articles 4 and 7; DSU or GATT 1994 Articles XXII and XXIII). The AoA Article 13 drafting denotes that Uruguay Round negotiators were concerned about the relationship between substantive provisions of the SCM Agreement (Articles 3, 5 and 6) and GATT 1994 (Article XVI) and the substantive provisions on domestic support and export subsidies under the AoA. In short, what Article 13 does is to protect Members that comply with Article 13 conditions from actions derived from a violation of the substantive provisions cited therein, namely ASCM Articles 3, 5 and 6 and GATT 1994 Article XVI. What Article 13 does not, given the way it was drafted, is to shield Members from the dispute settlement procedures which would be necessary to identify or to confirm the substantive violation of those Articles.
25. Had the AoA drafters intended to carve domestic support and/or export subsidy measures out of the WTO dispute settlement mechanism they would have done it expressly, but they did not. This is further confirmed by the example of Article 6 of the TRIPS Agreement, which clearly states that the issue of the exhaustion of intellectual property rights cannot be addressed through dispute settlement.30 Unlike AoA Article 13, TRIPS Article 6 expressly prohibits a Member from resorting to the WTO dispute settlement mechanism to challenge certain matters. Against all these evident facts, the only argument the US has to read a prohibition to resort to dispute settlement into Article 13 is based on a groundless definition of "action", as shown above.
VI. A SPECIAL PEACE CLAUSE PROCEDURE WOULD AMOUNT TO HAVING THE PANEL ISSUE A DECLARATORY JUDGMENT FOR THE US AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE
26. Brazil's request for the establishment of a panel (as well as its consultation request) stated that the "United States has no basis to assert a defence under Article 13(b)(ii) . . . and Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture . . .".31 The third-party statements of the European Communities, Australia, and Argentina agree with Brazil's description of the peace clause as a "defence". Each of these third parties agree that the United States is required to assert and prove that all the peace clause conditions apply. For example, the European Communities stated that AoA Article 13
can only be seen as a defence against a claim brought under other aspects of the WTO Agreements which regulate the provision of subsidies. It would seem bizarre if,
28 MTN/FA II/A1A-3, Arts. 13, 19. 29 MTN/FA II/A2, Appendix 2. 30 TRIPs Article 6 reads: "For the purposes of dispute settlement under this Agreement, subject to the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 nothing in this Agreement shall be used to address the issue of the exhaustion of intellectual property rights." 31 WT/DS267/7

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-36
before Brazil could bring a claim with respect to subsidies which it considered did not respect the US's WTO obligations, Brazil had first to establish that potential US defences did not apply.32
27. In addition, Australia argues that "Article 13 is in the nature of an `affirmative defence' for measures which are inconsistent with the specified provisions". 33 Argentina also takes the view that this provision is in the nature of an affirmative defence, stating that "the Member who alleges to be protected by the Peace Clause has the burden of proving the fulfillment of its legal requirement".34
28. The United States' Initial Brief alleges in paragraph 2 that "the US support measures at issue conform with the Peace Clause". Based on this allegation, the United States concludes that "Brazil cannot maintain any action ­ and the United States cannot be required to defend any such action. . ."35 The United States has not labeled this as a defence, or an "affirmative defence". However, this assertion by the United States suggests its intent to invoke such a defence as part of its First Submission that it will file on 11 July 2003.36
29. Brazil agrees with the European Communities, Australia and Argentina that the peace clause is a defence requiring the United States ­ not Brazil ­ to demonstrate that it has met all of its conditions. Brazil also agrees with the European Communities that it would be bizarre if Brazil were required to establish that potential US defences did not apply before it could bring its own claims. And Brazil further agrees with the European Communities that what the United States is requesting in this dispute is effectively a "declaratory judgment" that the United States defences of the peace clause do or do not apply.
30. Brazil will present evidence in its First Submission that the US measures do not meet the conditions of the various peace clause provisions. Brazil will do this because the United States is on record before this Panel in asserting that its support measures are fully in compliance with the peace clause. However, Brazil is not required to present any evidence on the peace clause to assert its actionable and prohibited subsidy claims under the ASCM. Rather, this is the US burden defending against Brazil's various claims. The time and place for the Panel to hear and consider any evidence proffered by the US in any such defence is during the normal panel process, as Brazil has argued in this Comments, in its Initial Brief and in its letter dated 23 May 2003. There is no basis for the United States to demand, or for the Panel to grant, a declaratory judgment that the US peace clause defences are legitimate or not.
VII. CONCLUSION
31. For the reasons set forth above, Brazil's Initial Brief and its letter dated 23 May 2003, Brazil requests that this Panel find that it is not precluded from hearing evidence and considering Brazil's claims under the ASCM or Article XVI of GATT 1994 without first concluding that the peace clause conditions of AoA Article 13(b)(ii) and 13(c)(ii) remain unfulfilled.
32 EC Initial Submisson, para. 6. 33 Australia Initial Submission paras. 4-7. 34 Argentina Initial Submission, para. 14. 35 US Initial Brief, para. 2. 36 By contrast, the United States did not invoke the peace clause defence in US - FSC even though the EC request for the establishment of a panel included claims under ASCM Article 3.1(a) with respect to export subsidies for agricultural products. AoA Article 13(c) conditionally exempts those claims from "actions."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-37
ANNEX A-10
COMMENTS OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE COMMENTS BY BRAZIL AND THE THIRD PARTIES
ON THE QUESTION POSED BY THE PANEL
13 June 2003
I. OVERVIEW
1. The United States thanks the Panel for this opportunity to provide its views on the comments by Brazil and the third parties on the question concerning Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture ("Agriculture Agreement") posed by the Panel in its fax of 28 May 2003.1 The interpretation of Article 13 (the "Peace Clause") advanced by Brazil and endorsed by some of the third parties is deeply flawed. Simply put, Brazil fails to read the Peace Clause according to the customary rules of interpretation of public international law. Its interpretation does not read the terms of the Peace Clause according to their ordinary meaning, ignores relevant context, and would lead to an absurd result.
2. Brazil reads the Peace Clause phrase "exempt from actions" to mean only that "a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB [Dispute Settlement Body] to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic and export support measures that otherwise would be subject to the disciplines of certain provisions of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures . . . or Article XVI of GATT 1994'".2 However, Brazil's reading simply ignores parts of the definition of "actions" that it quotes: "The dictionary definition of `actions' is `the taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy".3 Thus, while the United States would agree that the phrase "exempt from actions" precludes "the taking of legal steps to . . . obtain a remedy", Brazil provides no explanation of why the term "exempt from actions" would not, based on its ordinary meaning, also preclude "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim".4
3. Brazil also bases its reading in part on the assertion that "[i]n a multilateral system such as the WTO (like GATT 1947 before it), `actions' are taken collectively by Members".5 Brazil cannot explain, however, why "actions" should be limited to only those actions taken collectively. Read in the context of provisions in the WTO agreements in which the term "action" does not refer to collective action by Members, "action" in the Peace Clause refers broadly to the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy".
1 The Panel asked the parties to address: "[W]hether Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture precludes the Panel from considering Brazil's claims under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in these proceedings in the absence of a prior conclusion by the Panel that certain conditions in Article 13 remain unfulfilled. In particular, the Panel invites the parties to explain their interpretation of the words "exempt from actions" as used in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as bringing to the Panel's attention any other relevant provisions of the covered agreements and any other relevant considerations which the parties consider should guide the Panel's consideration of this issue."
2 Brazil's Brief on Preliminary Issue Regarding the "Peace Clause" of the Agreement on Agriculture, para. 2 (5 June 2003) ("Brazil's Initial Brief") (emphasis added).
3 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 6 (emphasis added). 4 See infra part II.A. 5 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 6 (footnote omitted).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-38
4. In addition, Brazil's suggested reading of the Peace Clause would lead to an absurd result. If the phrase "exempt from actions" means nothing more than that "a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy", then a panel would be perfectly free to make findings that a measure that conforms to the Peace Clause is inconsistent with the relevant provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 ("GATT 1994") or the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures ("Subsidies Agreement"). Under the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes ("DSU"), the DSB would be unable to avoid adopting the panel findings of inconsistency with the Subsidies Agreement or GATT 1994 or recommendations to bring the measure into conformity, thus depriving the Peace Clause of any meaning.
5. The remainder of Brazil's arguments do not go to a proper interpretation of the Peace Clause under the customary rules of interpretation of public international law and so do not assist in answering the question posed by the Panel concerning the Peace Clause. Nonetheless, the United States addresses various of these misplaced concerns. For example, Brazil argues that the Peace Clause is not a special or additional rule set out in Appendix 2 of the DSU; however, the Peace Clause need not be a special or additional rule because the Panel may properly deal with the Peace Clause issue under normal DSU rules. Brazil also tries to cite to unrelated issues in completely distinct disputes, arguing that some of these other panels have delayed making "complex threshold findings" until final panel reports. None of these panels is relevant since none of them has been presented with the issues presented by the Peace Clause. Brazil also asserts that consideration of alleged administrative burdens should override the plain meaning of the text of the Agriculture Agreement ­ an obviously erroneous approach.
6. As the United States explained in its initial brief on the Panel's question6, the phrase "exempt from actions" (read in accordance with the customary rules of interpretation of public international law) means "not exposed or subject to" a "legal process or suit" or the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim". Therefore, Brazil cannot maintain any action ­ and the United States cannot be required to defend any such action ­ based on provisions specified in the Peace Clause since the US support measures for upland cotton conform to the Peace Clause.
7. In light of the correct interpretation of the Peace Clause, the United States affirms that it respectfully requests the Panel to organize its procedures to first determine whether Brazil may maintain any action based on provisions exempted by the Peace Clause. Bifurcation of the legal issues in this proceeding is not only required under the Peace Clause but, as an exercise of the Panel's discretion to organize its procedures, would assist the Panel in resolving the complex issues involved in this dispute in a logical and orderly fashion.
II. BRAZIL'S INITIAL BRIEF DOES NOT READ THE PEACE CLAUSE ACCORDING TO THE CUSTOMARY RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF PUBLIC INTERNATIONAL LAW AND LEADS TO ABSURD RESULTS
A. THE ORDINARY MEANING OF "EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS" DOES NOT SUPPORT BRAZIL'S READING
8. According to the customary rules of interpretation of public international law7, the terms of the Peace Clause should be interpreted according to their ordinary meaning in their context, in light of
6 Initial Brief of the United States of America on the Question Posed by the Panel, paras. 6-10 (5 June 2003) ("US Initial Brief").
7 See DSU Article 3.2 (The dispute settlement system "serves to preserve the rights and obligations of Members under the covered agreements, and to clarify the existing provisions of those agreements in accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law.").

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-39
the object and purpose of the Agriculture Agreement.8 The United States agrees completely with Brazil in terms of the dictionary definition of "actions". Under that definition, "action" means "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy".9 As the Panel's question has highlighted, one of the key issues in this dispute is whether the Peace Clause permits Brazil to "take legal steps" so Brazil can "establish" its Subsidies Agreement "claims".
9. Yet, as soon as Brazil provides the correct definition of "action", Brazil urges an approach that would ignore it. Combining this definition with that for the word "exempt"10, Brazil reads the term "exempt from actions" to mean "that a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic or export support measures that are `peace clause' protected".11 Strikingly, neither Brazil nor any of the third parties who share this interpretation12 provides any basis in the text of the Peace Clause for ignoring that portion of the definition of "actions" that refers to "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim".13
8 The customary rules of interpretation of public international law are reflected in part in Article 31(1) of the Vienna Convention, which reads: "A treaty shall be interpreted in good faith in accordance with the ordinary meaning to be given to the terms of the treaty in their context and in the light of its object and purpose."
9 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 6 (emphasis added). 10 Brazil has quoted the definition of the word "exempt" when used as a verb. See The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, vol. 1, at 878 (1993 ed.) (first definition as transitive verb: "Grant immunity or freedom from or from a liability to which others are subject") (italics in original). However, if used as a verb in the Peace Clause, the correct form of "exempt" would be "shall be exempted from actions." See id., vol. 1, at 878 (examples for first definition of "exempt" as verb: "J. A. FROUDE Clergy who committed felony were no longer exempted from the penalties of their crimes. R. D. LAING I was exempted from military service because of asthma.") (italics added). As used in the Peace Clause in the construction "shall be . . . exempt from actions," "exempt" is an adjective. See id., vol. 1, at 878 (examples of "exempt" as used in first definition as adjective: "R.C. TRENCH They whom Christ loves are no more exempt than others from their share of earthly trouble and anguish. J. BERGER He is exempt on medical grounds from military service.") (italics added). Therefore, the correct definition of "exempt" as used in the Peace Clause is "[n]ot exposed or subject to something unpleasant or inconvenient; not liable to a charge, tax, etc. (Foll. by from, of.)." Id., vol. 1, at 878 (first definition as adjective) (italics in original). 11 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 9; see id., para. 8. 12 Regrettably, none of the third parties (save Australia) even attempts to read the Peace Clause ­ and in particular the phrase "exempt from actions" ­ according to the customary rules of interpretation of public international law. Australia does offer an interpretation of "exempt from actions based on" purportedly using the ordinary meaning of the terms, but it appears that Australia has interpreted "exempt from actions" merely by quoting a definition for " exempt." Compare Comments of Australia on Question Posed by Panel, para. 7 & n. 3, with Black's Law Dictionary at 593 (7th ed. 1999) (definition of "exempt" as adjective: "Free or released from a duty or liability to which others are held."). That is, Australia's interpretation ascribes no meaning to the words "from actions," reducing them to inutility. In addition to failing to provide any definition for "actions," Australia also fails to examine any context for that term in the DSU and the Subsidies Agreement. See US Initial Brief, paras. 7-10. 13 Argentina reads "exempt from actions" as meaning that "a finding of inconsistency with Articles XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of SCM Agreement will not be possible if the legal requirements for the exemption are fulfilled." Comments by Argentina on Question Posed by Panel, para. 5. However, in making this assertion, Argentina neither provides nor attempts to distinguish the ordinary meaning of "action" as the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy." Nor does Argentina explain why, if Members only meant to preclude "a finding of inconsistency" with specified provisions, they did not simply use the word "finding" ­ for example, "measures . . . shall be . . . exempt from findings based on" certain specified provisions ­ when the term "finding" is used at least 12 times in the DSU. See, e.g., DSU Article 7.1 (standard panel terms of reference include "mak[ing] such findings as will assist the DSB in making the recommendations or in giving the rulings provided for in that/those agreement(s)"); DSU Article 11 (panel should make an objective assessment of matter before it, including "such other findings as will assist the DSB in making the recommendations or in giving the rulings provided for in the covered agreements"); DSU

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-40
10. As the United States has demonstrated, the ordinary meaning of "action" encompasses not only the "taking of legal steps to . . . obtain a remedy" but also the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim". Other dictionary definitions of "action" ­ such as "the right to institute a legal process", "[a] legal process or suit", "a lawsuit brought in court", "a formal complaint", "a legal or formal demand of one's right", and "all the formal proceedings in a court of justice attendant upon the demand of a right made by one person of another in such court"14 ­ provide additional support for this reading. Thus, while the United States agrees that the phrase "exempt from actions" would also preclude "the taking of legal steps to . . . obtain a remedy"15, the United States disagrees with Brazil that one may ignore that "exempt from actions" also precludes "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim." Nothing in the text of the Peace Clause authorizes departing from the ordinary meaning of the Peace Clause phrase "exempt from actions" to narrow this text to refer solely to "obtaining a remedy".16
B. THE CONTEXT FOR "EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS" DOES NOT SUPPORT BRAZIL'S READING
11. In its analysis of the phrase "exempt from actions", Brazil quickly moves beyond the ordinary meaning of the term "action" it quotes (which encompasses "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim") to examine what it deems relevant context for the term. Brazil asserts that "[i]n a multilateral system such as the WTO (like GATT 1947 before it), `actions' are taken collectively by Members"17, citing DSU Article 2.1 (last sentence), GATT 1994 Article XVI:1, and DSU Article 2218, and concludes: "In sum, `actions' are multilaterally agreed decisions of WTO bodies including the DSB."19 Brazil's argument overlooks the fact that there are numerous instances in various WTO agreements in which the term "action " is used to refer to action by an individual Member, not just collective action by Members.
12. Brazil notes that the term "actions" is sometimes used in the DSU to refer to collective "decisions or actions" by the DSB.20 This observation is accurate, but the conclusion that Brazil draws from it is a non sequitur. The fact that the term "action" can mean "collective decision or action by the DSB" does not imply that the term "action" can mean only "collective decision or action by the DSB".
13. Brazil has moreover failed to consider those instances in which the term "action" is used to refer to individual action by Members.21 For example, Article 3.7 of the DSU, which states that "[b]efore bringing a case, a Member shall exercise its judgement as to whether action under these
Article 12.7 (panel "shall submit its findings in the form of a written report to the DSB"). There is no basis in the text or context of the Peace Clause to read "actions" to be limited to "panel findings".
14 US Initial Brief, para. 7. 15 Indeed, this necessarily follows from the fact that, if a party cannot take legal steps to establish a claim, it will also be precluded from obtaining a remedy. 16 We also note that Brazil's approach of interpreting "exempt from actions" as "cannot receive authorization . . . to obtain a remedy" appears to overlook the "taking of legal steps" component of even the "remedy" portion of the definition of " action". 17 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 6 (footnote omitted). 18 Brazil also asserts that "`[a]ctions' include decisions made by the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) to adopt rulings and recommendations of panels and the Appellate Body" but provides no reference to a provision of the DSU to support the assertion. Neither DSU Article 16.4 (on adoption of panel reports) nor DSU Article 17.14 (on adoption of Appellate Body reports) uses the term "action" to describe a DSB decision to adopt panel and Appellate Body rulings and recommendations. 19 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 6. 20 For example, Brazil quotes DSU Article 2.1, which states that "[w]here the DSB administers the dispute settlement provisions of a Plurilateral Trade Agreement, only those Members that are parties to that Agreement may participate in decisions or actions taken by the DSB with respect to that dispute." 21 See US Initial Brief, paras. 8-9.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-41
procedures would be fruitful," does not by its terms refer to "multilaterally agreed decisions of WTO bodies including the DSB". Similarly, Article 4.5 of the DSU states: "In the course of consultations in accordance with the provisions of a covered agreement, before resorting to further action under this Understanding, Members should attempt to obtain satisfactory adjustment of the matter" (emphasis added). In the Subsidies Agreement, subsidies are divided into prohibited, actionable, and non-actionable categories, and a Member may impose countervailing duties against prohibited and "actionable" subsidies without first obtaining authorization through a "multilaterally agreed decision[] of WTO bodies including the DSB".22 Brazil's interpretation is at odds with all of these provisions ­ for example, since during consultations the DSB will not have taken any action with respect to a dispute, how could a Member attempt to settle a matter before resorting to further action? These provisions make clear that, read in the context of the DSU and the Subsidies Agreement, "actions" has a broader scope than Brazil would like: as indicated by its ordinary meaning, "actions " refers to "the taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy," encompassing all stages of a dispute ­ obtaining DSB authorization for retaliation would only constitute one, final step.23
14. Indeed, had Members intended the scope of the Peace Clause to be limited solely to collective decisions taken by the DSB, they could have used in the Peace Clause the same construction as used in DSU Article 2.1 ­ for example, "measures . . . shall be . . . exempt from actions taken by the DSB based on" specified provisions. Members did not do so, however.
15. Finally, the United States notes that Brazil has asserted that GATT 1994 Article XVI:1 and DSU Article 22 provide relevant context for the term "actions". However, neither of these provisions uses the term "action" at all24, and they do not support Brazil's assertion that "actions" in the Peace Clause must be read to refer solely to "multilaterally agreed decisions of WTO bodies including the DSB." Similarly, Brazil refers to GATT 1994 Article XXV, entitled "Joint Action by the Contracting Parties." The fact that the drafters referred to this one kind of "action" as joint action only reinforces that the term "action" by itself is not intended to be limited to only "joint" or "collective" action. The phrase "contracting parties acting jointly" in Article XXV would be unnecessary if Brazil's interpretation of "action" were correct.25
22 Members are obligated to "take all necessary steps to ensure that the imposition of a countervailing duty on any product of the territory of any Member imported into the territory of another Member is in accordance with the provisions of Article VI of GATT 1994 and the terms of this Agreement." Subsidies Agreement, Article 10 (footnote omitted). See also GATT 1994 Article VI:6 (requiring multilateral approval of certain exceptional anti-dumping and countervailing duties).
23 We note that Argentina implicitly concedes that relevant context in the Subsidies Agreement for the phrase "exempt from actions" suggests that the term is not limited to decisions or actions taken by the DSB. Argentina recognizes that "[i]t is true that Article 7 of the SCM Agreement states that the request of consultations is subject to Article 13 of the AoA". Argentina's Third Party Initial Brief, para. 13. This would appear to contradict its reading of "the word `actions' in the context of Article 13 of the AoA [as] refer[ring] to decisions of WTO competent bodies, such as the DSB when it discharges its duties by establishing a panel," id., para. 6. That is, if the Peace Clause precludes a request for consultations by a Member under Article 7 of the Subsidies Agreement, the term "actions" in the Peace Clause cannot solely refer to "decisions of WTO competent bodies".
24 See, e.g., GATT 1994 Article XVI:1 ("In any case in which it is determined that serious prejudice to the interests of any other contracting party is caused or threatened by any such subsidization, the contracting party granting the subsidy shall, upon request, discuss with the other contracting party or contracting parties concerned, or with the CONTRACTING PARTIES, the possibility of limiting the subsidization."); DSU Article 22.6 ("When the situation described in paragraph 2 occurs, the DSB, upon request, shall grant authorization to suspend concessions or other obligations within 30 days of the expiry of the reasonable period of time unless the DSB decides by consensus to reject the request.").
25 See GATT 1994 Article XXV ("Wherever reference is made in this Agreement to the contracting parties acting jointly they are designated as the CONTRACTING PARTIES. ").

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-42
C. BRAZIL'S INTERPRETATION OF THE PEACE CLAUSE WOULD LEAD TO ABSURD RESULTS
16. Brazil's suggested reading of the Peace Clause would rob this provision of any real meaning. Brazil would expose measures that conform to the Peace Clause to finding of inconsistency with the relevant GATT 1994 and Subsidies Agreement provisions and would expose them to retaliation unless the complaining party were to agree not to adopt the findings or authorize retaliation.
17. Under Brazil's interpretation, the phrase "exempt from actions" means only that "a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy" ­ that is, the Peace Clause would exempt conforming measures from actions taken by the DSB to authorize remedies but not from findings by the Panel. A panel would therefore be perfectly free to make findings in its final report that a challenged measure that conforms to the Peace Clause is inconsistent with, inter alia, the Subsidies Agreement. Under the DSU, the DSB would be unable to avoid adopting the panel findings of inconsistency with the relevant GATT 1994 or Subsidies Agreement provisions or recommendations to bring the measure into conformity.26 Panel reports are adopted automatically by the DSB under the "negative consensus" rule27 and authorization to retaliate is also automatically given unless the DSB decides by consensus against this.28 As a result, the DSB could not decline to adopt the report or authorize remedies unless the complaining party agreed. Thus, under Brazil's reading, the phrase "measures . . . shall be . . . exempt from actions" in the Peace Clause would exempt conforming measures from DSB authorization to retaliate, but only if the complaining Member itself agreed not to authorize a remedy. This would be a strange and strained interpretation of the Peace Clause indeed and would effectively render it inutile, contrary to customary rules of treaty interpretation.
18. This absurd result would also conflict with the object and purpose of the Peace Clause and the Agriculture Agreement: namely, to exempt agricultural subsidies, under certain conditions, from the subsidies disciplines of the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 while Members continue negotiations to move towards the "long-term objective . . . to provide for substantial progressive reductions in agricultural support and protection sustained over an agreed period of time".29 Brazil also has not explained why, on its reading, Members would have chosen to allow actions, with all of their attendant burden on Members' (and the WTO's) resources, up to but not including authorization for retaliation.
26 Under DSU Article 19, "[w]here a panel or the Appellate Body concludes that a measure is inconsistent with a covered agreement, it shall recommend that the Member concerned bring the measure into conformity with that agreement." DSU Article 19 (emphasis added) (footnote omitted).
27 Under DSU Article 16, a panel report "shall be adopted at a DSB meeting unless a party to the dispute formally notifies the DSB of its decision to appeal or the DSB decides by consensus not to adopt the report". DSU Article 16.4 (footnote omitted).
28 When a Member "fails to bring the measure found to be inconsistent with a covered agreement into compliance therewith or otherwise comply with the recommendations and rulings" and compensation cannot be agreed, the complaining party Member may request authorization from the DSB to suspend concessions, DSU Article 22.2, and "the DSB, upon request, shall grant authorization to suspend concessions or other obligations within 30 days of the expiry of the reasonable period of time unless the DSB decides by consensus to reject the request", DSU Article 22.6.
29 Agriculture Agreement, preamble (third paragraph).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-43
III. BRAZIL'S INITIAL BRIEF RAISES A NUMBER OF MISGUIDED CONCERNS WHICH CANNOT UPSET THE BALANCE OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS UNDER THE PEACE CLAUSE AND DO NOT SUPPORT CONSIDERING BOTH THE APPLICABILITY OF THE PEACE CLAUSE AND BRAZIL'S SUBSTANTIVE CLAIMS TOGETHER
19. Brazil has advanced a number of other arguments, which relate neither to the ordinary meaning and context of the phrase "exempt from actions" nor to the object and purpose of the Peace Clause and the Agreement on Agriculture. These arguments are thus not relevant to the Panel's task of clarifying the meaning of the Peace Clause in accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law. Nonetheless, an examination of each of Brazil's arguments reveals that none of these concerns is well-founded.
A. THE PANEL MAY EXAMINE THE APPLICABILITY OF THE PEACE CLAUSE UNDER NORMAL DSU RULES
20. Brazil argues that because Article 13 is not a special or additional rule set out in Appendix 2 of the DSU, Peace Clause issues must be resolved using normal DSU rules and procedures, which Brazil believes would prohibit reaching the Peace Clause issue first. Brazil errs on two counts. There was no need to designate Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement as a special or additional rule precisely because the Panel may properly deal with the Peace Clause issue using the flexibility inherent in the normal DSU rules. The DSU, in Articles 12.1 and 12.2, provides the Panel with all the authority it needs to organize its working procedures as it considers best to resolve the matter in dispute.30 Under DSU Article 12.1, the Panel is given the authority to determine its own working procedures "after consulting the parties to the dispute".31 Under DSU Article 12.2, moreover, the Panel is charged with establishing panel procedures with "sufficient flexibility so as to ensure high-quality panel reports".32
21. Brazil itself has conceded the Panel's broad authority to establish its procedures in its letter of 23 May 2003, when it wrote of objections relating to the scope of a panel request under DSU Article 6.2: "The decision on how to handle such preliminary objections procedurally is a matter of panel discretion".33 Thus, Brazil implicitly recognizes that the Panel already has the flexibility and the authority under normal DSU rules to organize its procedures to consider and dispose of the Peace Clause issue first. There is no need for the Peace Clause to be listed as a "special or additional rule and procedure" in DSU Appendix 2 because under normal DSU rules the Panel may bifurcate the proceedings in order to respect the balance of rights and obligations of Members under the Peace Clause and the Agriculture Agreement ­ that is, to ensure that conforming US measures are "exempt from actions based on" provisions specified in the Peace Clause.
30 See Comments by the European Communities on certain issues raised on an initial basis by the Panel, para. 8 ("In conclusion, the Panel has substantial discretion in deciding how it will manage these issues. Article 12.1 DSU makes it quite clear that the Working Procedures set out in Appendix 3 of the DSU may be departed from if the Panel decides this is appropriate.").
31 DSU Article 12.1 ("Panels shall follow the Working Procedures in Appendix 3 unless the panel decides otherwise after consulting with the parties to the dispute. ").
32 DSU Article 12.2 ("Panel procedures should provide sufficient flexibility so as to ensure high-quality panel reports, while not unduly delaying the panel process.").
33 Letter from Ambassador Luiz Felipe de Seixas Corrêa, Permanent Mission of Brazil, to Mr. Dariusz Rosati, Chairman of Panel, at 3 (23 May 2003) (emphasis added). The carry-over paragraph continues: "Where preliminary objections have been resolved in advance of other claims, normally they have been resolved in the panel's first meeting, on the basis of the first round of submissions and oral statements."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-44
22. The United States notes that the Appellate Body has urged panels to adopt working procedures providing for preliminary rulings to deal with threshold jurisdictional issues34, even though there are no "special and additional rules" in the DSU providing for these. In addition, we note that Article 10.3 of the Agriculture Agreement (the same agreement at issue here) is not listed as a "special and additional rule," but panels and the Appellate Body have made clear that this provision nonetheless governs dispute settlement proceedings by shifting the burden of proof to the responding party.35
23. Finally, Brazil relies on Article 11 of the DSU ­ pursuant to which a panel "should make an objective assessment of the matter before it, including an objective assessment of the facts of the case and the applicability of and conformity with the relevant covered agreements" ­ to support its position. Brazil's reliance on Article 11 is misplaced as shown by a simple examination of the text of Article 11. Article 11 provides the standard of review for panels; it does not guide the procedure used by panels. According to Brazil, DSU Article 11 somehow mandates that a panel review "all the facts including rebuttal facts," hold two panel meetings, and allow for the exchange of rebuttal submissions.36 Brazil's argument is untenable; it would read Article 11 to mandate a particular series of meetings and submissions when Article 11 does not set out any particular procedural steps through which a panel "should make an objective assessment of the matter before it." At the same time, Brazil argues that the Panel may not, consistent with Article 11, consider the applicability of the Peace Clause first because "Article 11 contains no requirement for a special briefing, meeting or determination by a panel to resolve such applicability or exemption."37 Of course, there is nothing in the text of Article 11 that supports reading this provision to preclude the Panel's bifurcating the proceeding to respect the balance of rights and obligations in the Peace Clause. However, to be consistent with its own argument, Brazil should also read Article 11 not to mandate any particular number or sequence of procedural steps (such as those set out in DSU Appendix 3) that are not required under its terms.
B. NO PREVIOUS PANEL REPORT HAS EXAMINED THE PEACE CLAUSE, AND OTHER PROCEDURAL PROVISIONS CITED BY BRAZIL DO NOT CONTAIN THE PHRASE "SHALL BE . . . EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS"
24. Brazil suggests that deciding the issue of the applicability of the Peace Clause in advance of Brazil's substantive Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 claims is "contrary to the practice of earlier panels".38 Of course, there is no such practice since this is the first dispute to face this issue.
25. Brazil also argues that there are "a number of other threshold issues in WTO Agreements" but that "none of these provisions have special and additional rules to provide for extraordinary preliminary briefings, meetings, and determinations prior to a panel hearing on all of the claims presented".39 Brazil's invocation of previous panel proceedings is inapt. Brazil has not asserted that any of the "threshold" provisions in other WTO agreements that it cites or that have been interpreted by previous panels contain the same language as the Peace Clause (that is, "shall be . . . exempt from
34 See Appellate Body Report, European Communities ­ Regime for the Importation, Sale and Distribution of Bananas, WT/DS27/AB/R, para. 144.
35 See Appellate Body Report, Canada ­ Measures Affecting the Importation of Milk and the Exportation of Dairy Products, WT/DS103/AB/RW2, WT/DS113/AB/RW2, paras. 67-75 (second recourse to DSU Article 21.5).
36 See Brazil's Initial Brief, paras. 11-16. 37 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 16; see id., para. 11 ("Thus, resolution of the `peace clause' issues . . . must be resolved using normal DSU rules and procedures."). 38 Brazil's Initial Brief at 7 (heading IV). 39 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 21.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-45
actions").40 Indeed, it is striking that Brazil studiously avoids comparing the text of any of these provisions with the text of the Peace Clause.41
26. Given the fact that none of the other provisions cited by Brazil contains Peace Clause-like language, these provisions have little relevance for the Panel's interpretation of the Peace Clause. At most, the relevance of these provisions lies in the fact that such " threshold" provisions do not use language that certain measures "shall be . . . exempt from actions." This suggests that the distinct language of the Peace Clause was intended to provide a distinct right, and one that differs from rights provided by these other WTO provisions.
27. We also note Brazil's argument that in the "closest case to the peace clause issue presented here" ­ that is, Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft, WT/DS46/AB/R ­ there was "never a suggestion or finding that the panel erred by not conducting a special briefing and special determination" on the "threshold issue whether Brazil was in compliance with Article 27.4" of the Subsidies Agreement. From the Appellate Body report, it would appear that the Appellate Body did not address it because no party suggested that this threshold issue had to be taken up as a first stage of the proceeding. Nonetheless, the Appellate Body found that the panel erred in not considering the threshold Article 27.4 issue first. The Peace Clause language ("measures . . . shall be . . . exempt from actions") is different and even stronger in requiring that the Peace Clause be taken up first and separately, with findings, prior to any consideration of the relevant GATT 1994 and Subsidies Agreement provisions.
C. BRAZIL WILL NOT BE PREJUDICED BY SEPARATE HEARINGS AND BRIEFINGS ON THE PEACE CLAUSE ISSUE
28. Brazil, referring to its 23 May letter, argues that it will be prejudiced if the Panel considers separately the issue of the applicability of the Peace Clause from Brazil's substantive claims as this will disrupt "Brazil's efforts to make a coherent and unified presentation of its case"42 and result in greater expense to Brazil "in having to bring its legal and economic experts to Geneva for an extra meeting."43 Of course, any concerns that Brazil's presentation of its case may be affected cannot supersede the rights and obligations of Members as set out in the covered agreements ­ including the Peace Clause. In fact, the Peace Clause resolves any issue of how to account for burdens on parties since it provides that the responding party's measures are exempt from any action based on the relevant GATT 1994 and Subsidies Agreement provisions ­ it exempts the responding party from the burden of having to respond to the complaining party's claims. Brazil ignores this aspect of the Peace Clause. In any event, we note that bifurcating this proceeding to ensure that these conforming US measures are exempt from action based on Peace Clause-specified provisions will reduce, rather than increase, the amount of work involved for both parties. Here, dealing with the Peace Clause issue first will resolve that part of the dispute, saving both parties further work, since the US measures conform to the Peace Clause. And in general, such an approach simply means that a panel would deal
40 For example, arguments that a particular claim is not within a panel's terms of reference under DSU Article 6.2 do not involve any textual mandate that measures "shall be . . . exempt from actions." What Brazil calls the "closest case to the peace clause issue presented here" involved Articles 27.2(b) and 27.4 of the Subsidies Agreement, neither of which says that measures "shall be . . . exempt from actions based on" specified provisions. See Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 19 (quoting Appellate Body discussion of Subsidies Agreement Articles 27.2(b) and 27.4 in Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft, WT/DS46/AB/R; Subsidies Agreement Article 27.2 states that the "prohibition of paragraph 1(a) of Article 3 shall not apply to" developing country Members in compliance with Article 27.4). Other provisions cited by Brazil (Article 1 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services, Article 2 of the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, and Annex I of the Agreement on Government Procurement) similarly do not provide a legal right not to be subject to actions.
41 See Brazil's Initial Brief, paras. 18-21. 42 See Brazil's Initial Brief, paras. 17. 43 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 22.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-46
in sequence with the issues it would otherwise have to confront in a dispute. Because no additional issues would be covered (and needless work on certain claims might be avoided), it would not appear that additional effort on the part of a panel or the parties would be required.
29. We also note in any event that Brazil's concerns about duplication of its factual presentation and increased expense seem overstated. Even if this were a dispute where the relevant measures did not conform to the Peace Clause, Brazil misunderstands the process. The fact that some of the same evidence might be relevant to Peace Clause as well as Subsidies Agreement claims does not mean that the evidence would have to be introduced twice. Once Brazil's factual evidence were introduced, if it were relevant to later stages of the proceeding, it could of course be used for that purpose.44 Thus, there should be no duplication of its factual presentation and no additional burden to Brazil on that count. Similarly, with respect to concerns about the additional expenditure of resources should the Panel bifurcate this proceeding, the full-time presence of Brazil's private-sector counsel in Geneva should alleviate some of the expense that extra meetings (which there is no reason to assume would be needed since the US measures conform to the Peace Clause) might entail. In any event, however, the United States finds it difficult to believe that Brazil would bring an action with claims under 17 different provisions of the WTO agreements with respect to programs under at least 12 US statutes and not expect that the resulting dispute would involve additional complications and all the accompanying demands for time and resources.
30. Finally, the United States notes that Brazil has raised the issue that separate hearings and briefing on the Peace Clause issue "would cause it prejudice because there would be significant[] delays in the resolution of its claims ­ many of which do not implicate the peace clause".45. While, on its face, Brazil's list of "non-peace clause claims" appears to include claims based on provisions specified in the Peace Clause46, Brazil's point is not raised by the Panel's question. If the Panel requests the parties to give their views on the question of what should happen with any claims in this action based on provisions not specified by the Peace Clause, the United States would be pleased to do so.
IV. WERE THE PANEL TO CONSIDER THAT THE PEACE CLAUSE DOES NOT REQUIRE THAT THE PANEL DETERMINE WHETHER US MEASURES ARE EXEMPT FROM ACTIONS BEFORE CONSIDERING BRAZIL'S SUBSIDIES AGREEMENT AND GATT 1994 ARTICLE XVI ACTION, THE PANEL SHOULD EXERCISE ITS DISCRETION TO BIFURCATE THE PROCEEDING
31. Putting aside the arguments related to prejudice and expense which have been discussed above, the United States notes that, in the course of allegedly discussing the "context" for the Peace Clause, Brazil makes an argument that speaks not to any relevant context but to the Panel's exercise of its discretion to organize its procedures. Brazil argues that the "close overlap of proof for both peace clause and actionable and prohibited subsidy claims highlights the need for the Panel to examine all the `facts of the case' together".47 First, in this context, the United States has noted, and Brazil and the European Communities apparently agree, that the Panel enjoys significant discretion under DSU Articles 12.1 and 12.2 to organize its working procedures as it considers best to resolve the matter in dispute.
44 To put it simply, "Brazil exhibit 419" (for example) would remain "Brazil exhibit 419" ­ it would not change simply because it was now being cited in a different argument.
45 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 23. 46 Brazil argues that its "non-peace clause claims include . . . Article XVI:3 of GATT 1994 involving all domestic and export subsidies challenged by Brazil." Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 23. However, the Peace Clause explicitly states that conforming "export subsidies . . . shall be . . . exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994." Agriculture Agreement, Article 13(c)(ii). 47 Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 15.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-47
32. However, even were the Panel to conclude that Article 13 does not require the Panel to determine whether US measures are in breach of the Peace Clause and no longer "exempt from actions based on" specified provisions, the significance and wording of the Peace Clause in this dispute would mean that the Panel should exercise its discretion to bifurcate this proceeding. The Peace Clause would remain a significant, decisive issue. As noted above, bifurcating the proceedings would save both parties as well as the Panel significant time and work since it will render it unnecessary to address the relevant GATT 1994 and Subsidies Agreement claims.
33. Furthermore, given that Brazil has signalled that its Peace Clause arguments alone will involve "the presentation of considerable factual evidence and expert econometric testimony"48, it would appear that to hear Brazil's substantive claims at the same time would significantly complicate the Panel's work. The apparent complexity of Brazil's Peace Clause evidence also calls into significant question the likelihood that the timetable requested by Brazil is realistic with respect to the legitimate interests of the United States to defend its position. Finally, we note that, by seeking to have the Panel consider both the Peace Clause issue and Brazil's substantive claims at the same time, Brazil may be attempting to prejudice the US rights of defence ­ particularly since, even on Brazil's mis-reading of the Peace Clause, the US measures are "exempt from actions", Brazil is not entitled to obtain any remedy from the DSB.49
34. The United States also disagrees in any event that the "close overlap of proof for both peace clause and actionable and prohibited subsidy claims highlights the need for the Panel to examine all the `facts of the case' together". For example, to establish its "serious prejudice" claims, Brazil must present evidence showing that the United States has caused "adverse effects" through "the use of any subsidy" (Subsidies Agreement, Article 5(c)) and evidence on "the effect of the subsidy" (Subsidies Agreement, Article 6.3(b), (c), (d)). Neither of these showings is relevant to the issue of whether US measures have breached the Peace Clause.
35. Frankly, if Brazil's Peace Clause arguments will involve extensive factual and econometric evidence, it is difficult to understand why the Panel would be better served by considering this "considerable" evidence and testimony at the same time that it receives even more evidence and testimony on other, unrelated issues. Thus, even if one hypothesized that the Peace Clause does not require the Panel to consider the issue of its applicability prior to examining Brazil's substantive claims and that the Panel solely needed to consider how to take the Peace Clause issue into account in exercising its discretion to organize its procedures, the United States submits that the Panel's work would be facilitated by focusing on the legally and logically distinct Peace Clause issue first.50
48 Letter from Ambassador Luiz Felipe de Seixas Corrêa, Permanent Mission of Brazil, to Mr. Dariusz Rosati, Chairman of Panel, at 4.
49 See Brazil's Initial Brief, para. 9 ("In sum, `exempt from actions' means that a complaining Member cannot receive authorization from the DSB to obtain a remedy against another Member's domestic or export support measures that are `peace clause' protected.").
50 See Appellate Body Report, Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft, WT/DS46/AB/R, paras. 142-44 (finding that panel should have considered threshold Article 27.4 issue before examining whether export subsidy had been provided under Subsidies Agreement Article 3.1(a)); European Communities ­ Regime for the Importation, Sale and Distribution of Bananas, WT/DS27/AB/R, para. 144 (noting that panels would be better served by adopting working procedures providing for preliminary rulings to deal with threshold jurisdictional issues).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-48
V. OTHER ARGUMENTS BY THIRD PARTIES
A. GIVEN DSU RULES, THE PANEL'S ORGANIZATION OF ITS PROCEDURES REPRESENTS THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY TO ARREST BRAZIL' S ACTION
36. India and the European Communities have suggested that, taken to its logical extreme, reading "actions" as the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim" would require a complaining party to bring two actions: first, an action to establish that the Peace Clause does not apply to certain measures, and second, if a panel were to find the Peace Clause inapplicable, an action challenging the measures based on the provisions specified in the Peace Clause. While this issue is not pertinent to the Panel's question concerning Article 13, the United States notes that it has not advanced such an interpretation by, for example, asking the Panel to find that it could not be established.51 Thus, this issue is not before the Panel, and India's and the EC's arguments are irrelevant. Rather, we have requested more modestly that the Panel, consistent with the Peace Clause, structure its procedures so that US measures will in fact be exempted from Brazil's action based on provisions specified in the Peace Clause at the earliest possible juncture under the DSU.
37. As these third parties apparently fail to appreciate, prior to this moment, DSU rules provided for the dispute to proceed through consultations and panel establishment automatically, regardless of the US insistence that its measures conform to the Peace Clause. Although the United States has maintained at each and every stage that the challenged measures conform to the Peace Clause, the United States could not have stopped Brazil from asking for consultations52, nor could it reasonably have been expected to refuse an entire request for consultations because it contains a request contrary to the Peace Clause, nor could the United States have prevented the establishment of this Panel. As a responding party cannot prevent panel establishment from occurring, it will inevitably be forced to argue to a panel that the panel's procedures should be structured so that the party' s challenged measures are not subject, from that point on, to actions based on provisions specified in the Peace Clause. Thus, given the automaticity in DSU rules relating to consultations and panel establishment, the Panel's organization of its procedures provides the first opportunity to arrest Brazil's "taking of legal steps to establish a claim", and this is all the United States has asked the Panel to do.
B. CONTRARY TO THE SUGGESTION BY SEVERAL THIRD PARTIES, THE PEACE CLAUSE IS NOT AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE
38. Australia and the European Communities have each asserted that the Peace Clause is an affirmative defence.53 The United States believes that they are in error. However, this issue is not
51 We also note that this potential question relating to whether a panel could have been established given the applicability of the Peace Clause could arise even under Brazil's interpretation of "exempt from actions". Brazil states that "actions are multilaterally agreed decisions of WTO bodies including the DSB". However, "exempt from actions" would then seem to reach DSU Article 6.1, under which the DSB takes a "multilaterally agreed decision" to establish a panel to consider a matter. Thus, under Brazil's own logic, "exempt from actions" in the Peace Clause should also preclude a decision by the DSB to establish a panel and not just a decision to authorize remedies. Argentina implicitly concedes the point when it states that it "agrees with Brazil's statement in paragraph 6 of its Brief that the word `actions' in the context of Article 13 of the AoA refers to decisions of WTO competent bodies, such as the DSB when it discharges its duties by establishing a panel". Argentina's Third Party Initial Brief, para. 6 (emphasis added).
52 However, the United States notes that Argentina (in paragraph 13 of its "Third Party Initial Brief") accepts that under Article 7 of the Subsidies Agreement, a Member is not to request consultations on measures conforming to the Peace Clause.
53 See Comments by Australia, para. 4 (10 June 2003); Comments by the European Communities on certain issues raised on an initial basis by the Panel, para. 6 (dated 10 June "2002" on first page, 2003 in the heading).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page A-49
raised by the Panel's question concerning Article 13, and there is no need to discuss it further at this time.
VI. CONCLUSION: BRAZIL MAY NOT BRING, AND THE PANEL MAY NOT ADJUDICATE, A SUBSIDIES AGREEMENT OR GATT 1994 ARTICLE XVI ACTION AGAINST US MEASURES CONFORMING TO THE PEACE CLAUSE
39. For the reasons set out above and in its initial brief on the Panel's question concerning the Peace Clause, the United States respectfully requests the Panel to find that measures that conform to the Peace Clause are exempt from any action, including action under the DSU, based on the corresponding provisions of the Subsidies Agreement and the GATT 1994. As a result, the United States is not required to defend those measures in any action based on Brazilian claims exempted by the Peace Clause.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-1

ANNEX B

SUBMISSION OF PARTIES AND THIRD PARTIES FOR THE FIRST SESSION OF THE FIRST SUBSTANTIVE MEETING

Annex B-1 Annex B-2 Annex B-3 Annex B-4 Annex B-5 Annex B-6 Annex B-7 Annex B-8 Annex B-9 Annex B-10 Annex B-11

Contents Executive Summary of the Submission of Brazil Executive Summary of the Submission of the United States Third Party Submission of Argentina Third Party Submission of Australia Third Party Submission of Benin Third Party Submission of Canada Third Party Submission of China Third Party Submission of the European Communities Third Party Submission of New Zealand Third Party Submission of Paraguay Third Party Submission of Chinese Taipei

Page B-2 B-10 B-18 B-36 B-51 B-58 B-71 B-78 B-87 B-100 B-104

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-2
ANNEX B-1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF BRAZIL'S FIRST SUBMISSION TO THE PANEL REGARDING THE "PEACE CLAUSE" AND NON-PEACE CLAUSE RELATED CLAIMS
Introduction
1. Brazil's first submission initially addresses issues relating to the substantive interpretation of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA), known as the "peace clause," and details the evidence demonstrating that the United States has no basis to assert a peace clause defence regarding Brazil's actionable and prohibited subsidy claims. The second part of Brazil's first submission sets forth the evidence and arguments concerning claims involving the following US measures: Step 2 export payments, the US export credit guarantee programmes (GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP) and the ETI Act subsidies. These three subsidies do not fully conform to the provisions of Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture and, thus, the United States has no peace clause protection from claims under the SCM Agreement. Step 2 export payments, the three export credit guarantee programmes and the ETI Act subsidies also violate ASCM Article 3.1(a) and 3.2. Finally, Brazil demonstrates that Step 2 domestic payments violate ASCM Article 3.1(b) and GATT Article III:4.
Issues Regarding the Peace Clause in AoA Article 13
2. The peace clause of AoA Article 13 is in the nature of an affirmative defence. The United States has indicated that it will invoke a peace clause defence. To do so, the United States bears the burden of proof that US domestic support and export subsidies to upland cotton are provided in conformity with the requirements of the peace clause. Based on public international law and Appellate Body jurisprudence on the allocation of the burden of proof, AoA Article 13 is an affirmative defence because it provides an exception to a legal regime otherwise applying to agricultural support measures. It does not alter the scope of other provisions providing positive obligations on Members, and is not itself a positive obligation. It simply allows Members to maintain measures otherwise inconsistent with their WTO obligations exempt from actions, provided that the measures meet the conditions specified in AoA Article 13.
3. In accordance with Article 31 of the Vienna Convention, the appropriate interpretation of AoA Article 13(b)(ii) is the following: Members may assert a peace clause defence under AoA Article 13(b)(ii) only if the total quantity of support granted through all non-"green box" domestic support measures (i.e., measures that do not fully comply with the provisions of AoA Annex 2) to a specific commodity in any marketing year from 1995-2003 does not exceed the quantity of non-"green box" domestic support decided to be granted in MY 1992. The only "decision" made by the United States "during" MY 1992 was to grant (i.e., make actual expenditures) of $1.994 billion in non-"green box" support to upland cotton pursuant to the terms of the 1990 FACT Act.
4. The evidence regarding the amount of non-"green box" US support to upland cotton granted in MY 1999-2002 is based largely on USDA documents, which show that US non-"green box" domestic support decided to be authorized and paid to upland cotton increased to $3,445 million in MY 1999, was $2,311 million in MY 2000, and increased to a new record high of $4,093 million in MY 2001 (for a crop valued at $3,312 million). Brazil estimates that US non-"green box" domestic support for MY 2002 (which will end on 31 July 2003) is $3,113 million. This estimate is based on the last available data and the requirements set out in the 2002 FSRI Act.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-3
5. Thus, the evidence reveals that the amount of non-"green box" support granted in MY 19992002 exceeds the level of support "decided" by the United States in MY 1992. Therefore, the United States does not enjoy peace clause exemption from actions based on ASCM Article 5 and 6 and Article XVI:1 of GATT 1994 involving non-"green box" domestic support to upland cotton.
6. Brazil's calculation of the MY 1999-2002 reflects the appropriate set of non-"green box" domestic support measures granted to upland cotton. The United States notified to the WTO Committee on Agriculture that the following programmes are "amber box" support for MY 1999: Step 2 payments, loan deficiency payments, marketing loan gains, crop insurance payments, cottonseed payments, and market loss assistance payments. The structure of the first five of these domestic support programmes is substantially the same in MY 2000-2001 and under the 2002 FSRI Act as it was in MY 1999. There is also no indication that these five programmes should not continue to be treated as non-"green box" domestic support to upland cotton for the purposes of MY 2002. Therefore, the support under these five programmes, as well as market loss assistance payments, are non-"green box" support to upland cotton and are properly included in the set of domestic support measures for purposes of assessing possible US peace clause exemption from action.
7. With respect to production flexibility contract payments (PFC), direct payments (DP) and counter-cyclical payments (CCP), the evidence demonstrates that these payments are also non-"green box" support granted to upland cotton. The basis of this conclusion is summarized below.
8. Production Flexibility Contract Payments (PFC): There are two reasons why PFC payments are not properly "green box" support. First, PFC payments are inconsistent with AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(b), because Section 118(b) of the 1996 FAIR Act and the regulations implementing the PFC programme eliminates or reduces payments if producers grow certain products ­ fruits, vegetables and wild rice ­ on contract acreage.
9. AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(b) requires that the "amount" of payments "shall not be related to or based on, the type of production..." The object and purpose of paragraph 6(b), based on its text and context, is to ensure that decoupled "green box" payments are not focused or channelled for a single product or a particular sub-set of products. It covers only completely decoupled domestic support measures. Paragraph 6(b) seeks to guarantee that a producer who receives such payments can produce any product covered by the Agreement on Agriculture.
10. Section 118(b) of the 1996 FAIR Act and its regulations make it clear that the amount of PFC payments in any given marketing year between 1996 and 2001 was related to or was based on the type of production undertaken by a producer who entered into a PFC contract. The general rule is that "planting fruits and vegetables (except lentils, mung beans, and dry peas) shall be prohibited on contract acreage". If fruits and vegetables are grown on contract acreage, then the regulations provide that "the Deputy Administrator shall terminate the contract with respect to the producer on each farm in which the producer has an interest". The regulations also provide that in less serious cases of violation, the penalty may be a reduction of contract payments equal to the market value of the fruits and vegetables or the contract payment for each acre used for fruits and vegetables. Thus, the PFC payments are not "decoupled income support" as set out in AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(b) and therefore, are not "green box" support.
11. The second reason that PFC payments provided to upland cotton producers are not properly "green box" support is that they are inconsistent with the "fundamental" requirement in AoA Annex 2 paragraph 1 that they have "no, or at most minimal, trade distorting effects or effects on production". The quantity or level of production or trade distorting effects need only be very minimal to trigger denial of "green box" status under AoA Annex 2. This follows from the text of AoA Annex 2 paragraph 1, which contains the phrases "no," "at most," and "fundamental".

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-4
12. The record in this case demonstrates that PFC payments have had more than "at most" a "minimal" effect on production of US upland cotton during MY 1999-2002. Almost all upland cotton producers participated in the PFC programme. Furthermore, domestic US upland cotton producers view PFC payments as an important component of payments provided to upland cotton farmers. The percentage of subsidization by PFC payments relative to the market value measured by the price received by US upland cotton producers represents between 14 and 17 per cent for period MY 19992001. This provides US producers with a significant advantage in export competition with producers in the rest of the world who do not receive such a level of (or any) subsidies.
13. The PFC payments also have production effects because of the very high cost of production for upland cotton in the United States. Given the high US costs, without 14-17 per cent subsidies some higher-cost US producers would likely stop producing upland cotton. This would have resulted in lower levels of US upland cotton production. USDA economists have acknowledged the production-enhancing effects of PFC payments. They have also identified likely patterns of production effects.
14. Because the quantity or level or trade distorting effects need only be very minimal to trigger denial of "green box" status under AoA Annex 2, the evidence of the production enhancing effects of PFC payments necessitates the conclusion that PFC payments are not properly included within the AoA Annex 2 "green box". They are, thus, properly included within the domestic support measures to be used for the calculation of the amount of domestic support to upland cotton for MY 1999, 2000 and 2001.
15. Direct payments (DP): with the passage of the new FSRI Act in May 2002, PFC payments were discontinued and replaced with DP. These began to be paid in MY 2002 and will be paid until the end of MY 2007. USDA has identified the DP programme as the direct successor to the PFC programme under the 1996 FAIR Act.
16. There are three reasons why DP are not properly within AoA Annex 2. First, as with PFC payments, the amount of DP are related to or based on the type of production undertaken in any year after the base period in violation of AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(b). The 2002 FSRI Act and its implementing regulations eliminate or limit the amount of DP if base acreage is used for the production of certain crops, i.e., fruits, vegetables and wild rice.
17. Second, the DP provisions of the 2002 FSRI Act violate AoA Annex 2, paragraph 6(a) and (b) because producers were permitted to "update" their base acreage using MY 1998-2001 production totals. This is inconsistent with Annex 2, paragraph 6(a), which requires a single, fixed base period for a programme of support. The object and purpose of AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(a) and (b) is to ensure that Members do not permit payments to increase over time in a manner linked to increases in production over time. This also follows from the AoA Annex 2 paragraph 1 requirement that "green box" support measures have no or at most minimal production effects. That can only occur if the base (i.e., the base for increased payments) does not adapt to recent changes in the production of a farmer.
18. The major structural elements of the PFC programme and the DP programme are the same for both programmes in terms of the basic types of crops covered, the producer's obligations to receive payments, prohibited plantings of certain crops, and freedom to receive payments for one crop and farm another crop. The change from the PFC programme to the DP programme is not "de-coupling" but rather "re-coupling" of MY 2002 and future DP with MY 1998-2001 production.
19. One third of farms receiving PFC payments between MY 1996-2001 updated their acreage for the DP programme using MY 1998-2001 production data. Thus, interpreting AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(a) and (b) to permit an updating of the "fixed" base period by essentially changing the name of the "PFC payment" programme to DP programme would render these provisions a nullity.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-5
20. Third, DP also have more than "at most minimal" production and trade-distorting effects contrary to the chapeau of AoA Annex 2 paragraph 1. DP, like PFC payments, can increase production of upland cotton through (1) a direct wealth effect through risk aversion reduction, (2) a wealth facilitated increased investment reflecting reduced credit constraints, and (3) a secondary wealth effect resulting from the increase in investment. In addition, the updating of base acres in the 2002 FSRI Act created an ongoing production-enhancing effect because farmers will expect future updates and continue to maintain high levels and even increase production between MY 2002 - 2007. Continued low cotton prices will increase the need of producers to protect their base as a hedge against low prices. In addition, US upland cotton producers are among the world's highest cost producers. That means that the amount of DP (and CCP) is critical to the economic survival of many US upland cotton producers. Thus, there will be a very strong incentive to maintain and increase upland cotton base in anticipation of future base updates in future farm legislation to offset potentially lower world prices.
21. In sum, DP are properly included within the set of domestic support measures to be used for calculating the amount of domestic support to upland cotton for MY 2002.
22. Counter-Cyclical Payments (CCP): are non-"green box" domestic support because they are inconsistent with AoA Annex 2 paragraphs 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c). First, like PFC and DP, CCP are inconsistent with Annex 2 paragraph 6(b) because the CCP programme eliminates or limits the amount of payments for those producers who grow fruits, vegetables and wild rice on base acres.
23. Second, CCP also violate AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(c) because the amount of payments is based on current market prices. The ordinary meaning of AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(c) is that any direct income support to a producer of agricultural products must not be linked to an international or domestic price established after the base period, i.e., to a current price. CCP are not based on the prices of upland cotton production that took place in a prior base period but rather on prices of present production. As the current upland cotton prices received by US farmers fluctuate between $0.52 and $0.6573 per pound, the amount of payments for each year between MY 2002-2007 changes. This is inconsistent with AoA Annex 2 paragraph 6(c), which requires that payments cannot be based on "the prices...applying to any production undertaken in any period after the base period". But the CCP programme has no fixed "base period" for the purposes of setting "prices". It uses current prices, i.e., prices that apply to current production and, thus, to a "production undertaken in a period after the base period".
24. Third, like PFC and DP, CCP have production and trade distorting effects in violation of AoA Annex 2 paragraph 1. The new CCP programme for upland cotton is one of the main sources of increased payments for US cotton producers between the 1996 FAIR Act and the 2002 FSRI Act. The payments to US upland cotton farmers in MY 2002 will exceed $1 billion and represent over 32 per cent of the market value of US upland cotton. USDA economists have acknowledged that CCP have identifiable and measurable production effects.
25. In sum, CCP are non-"green box" domestic support properly included within the set of domestic support measures to be used for calculating the amount of domestic support to upland cotton for MY 2002.
26. DP and CCP are support to upland cotton: DP and CCP made in MY 2002 are support to upland cotton within the meaning of AoA Article 13(b)(ii). The great majority of upland cotton producers are enrolled in the programmes and will receive the full amount of these payments in MY 2002. Most of the producers of upland cotton in MY 2002 used upland cotton base acres to produce upland cotton. US farms growing the bulk of upland cotton tend to grow upland cotton year after year because of considerable investments in cotton-specific equipment and the lack of alternative crops. Thus, most farmers with cotton "base acreage" generally do not use that base acreage to grow other

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-6
crops. In addition, CCP create incentives to maintain upland cotton production at the level of the base period in order to minimize the risk of low revenues.
27. In sum, the United States cannot successfully invoke peace clause protection against Brazil's actionable subsidy claims under ASCM Articles 5 and 6 or Brazil's claims under GATT Article XVI:1.
28. Export Subsidy Peace Clause Issues Under AoA Article 13 (c): The United States also has no peace clause protection under AoA Article 13(c) for claims against export subsidies under the SCM Agreement regarding Step 2 export payments, the export credit guarantees and subsidies provided under the ETI Act. AoA Article 13(c) can only be invoked by a WTO Member as an affirmative defence if that WTO Member can demonstrate that its export subsidies "conform fully to the provisions of Part V" of the AoA. Part V of the AoA consists of Articles 8 to 11. A Member violates Part V of the AoA if it provides export subsidies for products for which it has not undertaken any export subsidy reduction commitments; or second, if it has export subsidy reduction commitments for the product under consideration, but exceeds the maximum amount of export subsidies to or the maximum value of the product that it has scheduled to be exported with the assistance of export subsidies. The United States does not enjoy peace clause protection for the agricultural export subsidies challenged by Brazil under the SCM Agreement because ­ as Brazil demonstrates ­ each of the subsidies at issue does not fully conform to Part V of the AoA.
Brazil's Claims Regarding Prohibited US Export and Local Content Subsidies
29. The United States maintains three types of export subsidies related to US upland cotton and other commodities. These subsidies violate AoA Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 and are prohibited under ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2. Brazil challenges all three measures to the extent they provide subsidies to upland cotton. In addition, it challenges the export credit guarantee programmes for all products covered.
30. The first measure, the Step 2 export programme, relates solely to exports of US upland cotton and provides grants to exporters. The second group of measures are three export credit guarantee programmes ­ the General Sales Manager 102 ("GSM 102"), the General Sales Manager 103 ("GSM 103") and the Supplier Credit Guarantee Programme ("SCGP") ­ provided by the United States in connection with the export of agricultural goods in general. The third measure providing export subsidies is the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income (ETI) Act of 2000, by which the United States provides tax breaks for exporters of US products, including agricultural products such as upland cotton.
31. Step 2 Export Payments: Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act mandates Step 2 export payments contingent on the export of US upland cotton lint. Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act requires USDA to pay US exporters the difference between higher priced US upland cotton and the average of the five lowest price quotes for exports of upland cotton worldwide (Cotlook's A-Index). The size of this subsidy averaged 8 per cent of the price received by US producers between MY 19992001 and an estimated 9.9 per cent in MY 2002.
32. Step 2 export payments constitute export subsidies within the meaning of the AoA. The Appellate Body has indicated that context for interpretation of an "export subsidy" under the AoA is found in the ASCM. Step 2 export payments involve grants within the meaning of ASCM Article 1.1(a)(1)(i), as the US Government pays money to US exporters. Such grants are direct transfers of economic resources for which the US Government receives no consideration. Step 2 export payments constitute "free money" for which exporters incur no corresponding obligations and, thus are made for "less than full consideration". They, therefore, confer a benefit within the meaning of ASCM Article 1.1(b). Finally, Step 2 payments are also export contingent within the meaning of ASCM

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-7
Article 3.1(a) because exporters are only eligible to receive Step 2 export payments if they produce evidence that they have exported an amount of US upland cotton.
33. Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act requires the US Secretary of Agriculture to make Step 2 export payments to eligible exporters upon proof of the export of US cotton. Therefore, Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act is inconsistent with AoA Articles 3.3 and 8, because it requires payments of export subsidies to upland cotton without the United States having undertaken any export subsidy reduction commitments under the AoA. Thus, the United States has no peace clause protection against claims made under the ASCM for Step 2 export payments. In addition, for the same reasons the Step 2 export payments violate AoA Articles 3.3 and 8, Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act also mandates payment of export subsidies in violation of ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2.
34. Export Credit Guarantee Programmes: The United States, through the US Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), operates three export credit guarantee programmes ­ General Sales Manager 102 (GSM 102), General Sales Manager 103 (GSM 103) and the Supplier Credit Guarantee Programme (SCGP). The programmes guarantee the repayment of loans granted to foreign importers of all US agricultural commodities and are not limited to upland cotton. Brazil's also challenges the whole programmes, not just as they relate to upland cotton.
35. USDA export data demonstrates that US exports of most scheduled commodities exceed the respective US quantitative export subsidy reduction commitment. For unscheduled commitments, there is no such commitment, which means that every export of these commodities is in excess of the United States' commitments. In Canada ­ Dairy Article 21.5 (II), the Appellate Body characterized export subsidy claims under the AoA as involving both a "quantitative aspect" and an "export subsidization aspect". It held that AoA Article 10.3 allocates the burden of proof for the export subsidization part to the defending Member ­ in this case the United States ­ if the complaining Member ­ in this case Brazil ­ establishes that the level of exports in exceeds of the export subsidy reduction commitments. Therefore, the United States bears the burden to prove that its excess exports did not benefit from export subsidies, including export credit guarantees
36. Nevertheless, Brazil also provides evidence that the three export credit guarantee programmes are export subsidies within the meaning of the AoA. The Appellate Body in US ­ FSC held that export subsidies within the meaning of the SCM Agreement are also export subsidies for the purposes of the AoA. Brazil demonstrates in two distinct ways that GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are "export subsidies". First, context for determining whether the US programmes are export subsidies under the AoA is provided by reference to ASCM Annex I, Item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies. Item (j) provides that export credit guarantee programmes are export subsidies if they are operated "at premium rates which are inadequate to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the programme". Second, export credit guarantees also constitute export subsidies under the AoA and in light of the Appelllate Body decisions in US- FSC and Canada ­ Dairy, if they involve "financial contributions" that confer "benefits" and are contingent upon export performance within the meaning of ASCM Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a).
37. US documents demonstrate that GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are export subsidies because they are operated at premium rates which are far below the level necessary to cover the programmes operating costs and losses. The programmes are, thus, export subsidies as defined in item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies. Under Appellate Body and panel jurisprudence, export subsidies defined in the ASCM Agreement are relevant context for a finding of export subsidies under the AoA. Therefore these three programmes constitute export subsidies within the meaning of the AoA.
38. In addition, GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are export subsidies within the meaning of the AoA because they are financial contributions consistent with ASCM Article 1.1(a)(1)(i), and confer benefits within the meaning of ASCM Article 1.1(b). The United States itself, in its budget, treats them as subsidies. In addition, no such guarantees are commercially available in the marketplace.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-8
GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are, furthermore, contingent upon export performance within the meaning of ASCM Article 3.1(a). Thus, the programme constitutes export subsidies within the meaning of both the SCM Agreement and the AoA.
39. The export subsidies GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP result in, or threaten to lead to, circumvention of the United States' export subsidy commitments within the meaning of AoA Article 10.1. GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP, in so far as they are available for unscheduled products, violate AoA Articles 10.1 and 8 because they make export subsidies available for unscheduled products. The Appellate Body has held that for unscheduled products, it is inconsistent with AoA Article 3.3 to provide export subsidies listed in AoA Article 9.1, and that it is inconsistent with AoA Articles 10.1 and 8 to provide any other export subsidy. GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP provide export subsidies to unscheduled products, and thus violate AoA Article 10.1 and 8.
40. With respect to scheduled products, GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP as such also threaten to lead to circumvention of the US export subsidy reduction commitments. The United States provides monetary allocations for export credit guarantees to individual third countries either on a commodity specific basis or on a non-commodity specific basis. This common feature of the three export credit guarantee programmes creates a threat that the United States will exceed its quantitative export subsidy reduction commitment for scheduled products in violation of AoA Articles 10.1 and 8.
41. In sum, the export credit guarantee programmes GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are inconsistent with AoA Articles 10.1 and 8. As they do not fully conform to AoA Part V, they do not enjoy peace clause protection under AoA Article 13(c)(ii).
42. Brazil has already established that GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are export subsidies within the meaning of item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies attached as Annex I to the SCM Agreement, and within the meaning of ASCM Article 3.1(a). It follows that GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are prohibited export subsidies within the meaning of ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2.
43. ETI Act Export Subsidies: The third export subsidy provided by the United States to upland cotton consists of tax cuts under the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000. This Act eliminates tax liabilities for exporters, inter alia, of upland cotton. A WTO panel and the Appellate Body have previously found that the ETI Act violates AoA Articles 10.1 and 8 and ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2. The tax breaks provided for under the ETI Act constitute export subsidies within the meaning of AoA Article 10.1. The ETI Act threatens to circumvent the US export subsidy commitments by providing an export subsidy to upland cotton while the United States does not have any export subsidy reduction commitments for upland cotton in violation of AoA Articles 10.1 and 8. As the ETI Act subsidies do not fully conform to AoA Part V, there is no peace clause exemption from actions under the SCM Agreement. Consequently, the ETI Act also constitutes a prohibited export subsidy within the meaning of ASCM Article 3.1(a) and 3.2.
44. Step 2 Domestic Payments: Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act mandates the payment of the Step 2 domestic payments. Step 2 domestic payments are subsidies within the meaning of the ASCM Article 1.1. They involve grants because the US Government pays domestic users of US upland cotton the difference between higher priced US upland cotton and the average of the five lowest upland cotton price quotes for exports (A-Index) without receiving any consideration in return. These grants are direct transfers of funds and constitute a financial contribution by a Government within the meaning of ASCM Article 1.1(a)(1)(i). They confer a "benefit" within the meaning of ASCM Article 1.1(b) because the domestic user of US upland cotton receives the financial contribution on terms more favorable than those available in the market. Step 2 domestic payments constitute "free money" for which domestic users of US upland cotton incur no corresponding obligations. Finally, Step 2 domestic payments are contingent on the use of domestic over imported goods. Domestic users of US cotton can only receive payments upon proof of opening a bale of domestic US upland cotton. In sum, Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act mandating Step 2 domestic

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-9
payments violates ASCM Articles 3.1(b) and 3.2 by requiring the provision of subsidies contingent upon the use of domestic over imported goods.
45. The Step 2 domestic payment programme also constitutes a violation of GATT Article III:4. Section 1207(a) requires the US Secretary of Agriculture to treat upland cotton of non-US source less favorable than like US upland cotton. Only upland cotton that "is domestically produced baled upland cotton" is eligible for the Step 2 domestic payment programme. Paying a subsidy to like domestic upland cotton while denying such payments to imported like cotton negatively affects the competitiveness of imported cotton by making it less attractive to US purchasers. The Step 2 domestic payment programme therefore extends "less favorable treatment" to imported goods within the meaning of GATT Article III:4.
Conclusion
46. In Brazil's further submission (scheduled for 4 September 2003 following the Panels expression of its views on AoA Article 13 on 1 September 2003) Brazil will present its arguments concerning its claims under ASCM Articles 5(c), 6.3(b), 6.3(c) and 6.3(d), as well as under GATT Article XVI.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-10
ANNEX B-2
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE FIRST WRITTEN SUBMISSION OF THE UNITED STATES
1. In this submission, the United States principally focuses on the issues involving the Peace Clause. However, three sets of measures identified by Brazil ­ (1) export credit guarantee measures relating to eligible US agricultural commodities other than US upland cotton; (2) production flexibility contract payments and market loss assistance payments; and (3) cottonseed payments ­ were, respectively, not the subject of consultations, had expired before consultations were requested, or had not yet been adopted at the time of the consultation and panel requests. With respect to these measures, the United States requests that the Panel make preliminary rulings that they are not within the Panel's terms of reference.
2. General Interpretation of the Peace Clause and "Exempt from Actions": As set out in more previous submissions, read in accordance with the customary rules of interpretation of public international law, the key Peace Clause phrase "exempt from actions" means "not exposed or subject to" a "legal process or suit" or the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy". Relevant context in DSU Article 3.7 and 4.5 and Subsidies Agreement Article 7 supports this reading. For example, contrary to Brazil's suggestion that "action" only refers to "collective action" by the Dispute Settlement Body, DSU Article 4.5 uses the phrase "further" action. Since no "action" will have been taken by the DSB "in the course of consultations," the phrase "further action" suggests that requesting consultations is part of the action brought by a complaining party. Thus, these provisions suggest that "action" based on the relevant provisions would include all stages of a dispute, including the "bringing [of] a case", consultations, and panel proceedings and would support reading "exempt from actions" in Article 13 to mean "not subject to" the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim".
3. Prior to this point in the process, DSU rules did not afford the United States any opportunity to prevent the dispute from proceeding through consultations and panel establishment automatically, regardless of the US insistence that its measures conform to the Peace Clause. As a responding party cannot prevent panel establishment from occurring, it will inevitably be forced to argue to a panel that its procedures should be structured so that the party's challenged measures are not subject, from that point on, to actions based on provisions specified in the Peace Clause. Thus, the Panel's organization of its procedures provided the first opportunity to arrest Brazil's "taking of legal steps to establish a claim".
4. The Peace Clause Is Not an Affirmative Defence: The Peace Clause applies "[n]otwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994" and the Subsidies Agreement ­ that is, in spite of and without regard to or prevention by the subsidies obligations contained in those agreements. Article 21.1 of the Agriculture Agreement further clarifies that the obligations of Members under the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 only apply "subject to" the provisions of the Agriculture Agreement, including the Peace Clause. There is no need to determine if a measure is inconsistent with WTO subsidies disciplines before applying the Peace Clause as would be the case if the Peace Clause were an affirmative defence to those obligations.
5. As in United States - Measures Affecting Imports of Woven Wool Shirts and Blouses from India, in which the Appellate Body explained that a provision that was described as an "exception" was not an affirmative defence and in fact was "an integral part" of the arrangement under the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing that "reflects an equally carefully drawn balance of rights and obligations of Members", here, too, the Peace Clause is part and parcel of the balance of rights and

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-11
obligations with the subsidies disciplines of GATT 1994 and the Subsidies Agreement and explains which measures are subject to actions based on those disciplines.
6. Article 13(a)(i) establishes that green box measures are "non-actionable subsidies for purposes of countervailing duties". This obligation is not contingent on whether a Member asserts an "affirmative defence" that a particular measure is "green box"; that is, one Member is not free to impose a countervailing duty until another establishes a Peace Clause "affirmative defence". There is no textual basis to interpret the Peace Clause to be an affirmative defence under one provision (Article 13(b)(ii)) but not another. In fact, rather than a defence, the Peace Clause could be used on the offense (as a cause of action) if, for example, a Member imposed a countervailing duty on a "green box" measure while the Peace Clause was in force.
7. Brazil has erroneously asserted that the Peace Clause "provides no positive obligations itself". Brazil overlooks the text of, for example, Article 13(a)(ii) and (b)(ii), which incorporates positive obligations of Annex 2 and Article 6 by reference. The Peace Clause also differs from the fifth sentence of footnote 59 to item (e) and under the second paragraph of item (k) of the Illustrative List, under which it appears that a measure otherwise prohibited under Article 3 of the Subsidies Agreement would nonetheless be permitted given the existence of circumstances detailed in those provisions. However, under the Peace Clause, conforming measures are not even exposed or subject to the taking of legal steps to establish a claim or obtain a remedy based on Peace Clause-specified provisions. Further, Subsidies Agreement Articles 3, 5, and 6 recognize that measures conforming to the Peace Clause are not subject to those disciplines by expressly excluding such measures from the scope of those obligations.
8. Brazil asserted in both its panel and consultation requests that the Peace Clause does not exempt the challenged US measures from action. Brazil implicitly recognized in these documents that it must surmount the Peace Clause hurdle to bring this action against US agricultural support measures. Even were the United States to present no arguments on the applicability of the Peace Clause, Article 13 would bar Brazil's claims unless Brazil made a prima facie case that the US measures breach the Peace Clause.
9. US Direct Payments Meet and Conform to the Criteria in Article 13(a): Pursuant to Agriculture Agreement Article 13(a)(ii) domestic support measures that "conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2 to this Agreement" are "exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 and Part III of the Subsidies Agreement". The 2002 Act establishes several types of measures that qualify for green box protection, including one, direct payments, that is challenged by Brazil.
10. Direct payments under the 2002 Act conform fully to the basic criteria in paragraph 1, Annex 2, as well as the five "policy-specific criteria and conditions" in paragraph 6, Annex 2, for "decoupled income support". Consistent with paragraph 1, direct payments are provided by a publicly-funded government programme and do not provide price support. Consistent with paragraph 6, direct payments establish eligibility by reference to the clearly-defined criteria of factor use or production level in a defined and fixed base period. Payments are not related to production or prices or the factors of production employed in any year after the base period, and no production is required in order to receive such payments.
11. In short, direct payments do not provide support for upland cotton because they are not linked to current cotton production. These payments are made with respect to farm acreage that was devoted to agricultural production in the past, including previous upland cotton production. Direct payments, however, are made regardless of whether cotton is currently produced on those acres or whether anything is produced at all. Because all of the criteria in paragraphs 1, 5, and 6 are met, direct payments conform to the requirements of Annex 2 and are "exempt from actions" based on Part III of the Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 Article XVI.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-12
12. Applicability of Agriculture Agreement Article 13(b)(ii): Pursuant to Agriculture Agreement Article 13(b)(ii), "domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6" are "exempt from actions" based on GATT 1994 Article XVI:1 and Subsidies Agreement Articles 5 and 6. Brazil does not contest that US non-green box domestic support measures conform fully to the requirements of Article 6. Thus, the only question is whether US non-green box domestic support measures do or do not "grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year."
13. The phrase "grant support to a specific commodity" is not explicitly defined. Read according to its ordinary meaning, this phrase means to "give" or "confer" formally a "subsidy" ("assistance, backing") "specially . . . pertaining to a particular" "agricultural crop". Read in the context of, inter alia, the definition of "Aggregate Measurement of Support" in Article 1(a), "support to a specific commodity" refers to support "provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product" or "product-specific support".
14. The product-specific support granted by such Article 6 measures must be compared to "that decided during the 1992 marketing year". According to its ordinary meaning, this phrase would mean the product-specific support that was "determined" or "pronounced" during the 1992 marketing year. With reference to support or subsidies, the term "decided" is not used elsewhere in the Agriculture Agreement nor in the Subsidies Agreement. Various provisions that define the overall domestic support in favour of agricultural producers that has been, is being, and may be provided by a Member use the phrase "support provided" in favour of an agricultural product or agricultural producers no fewer than 13 times. Context thus suggests that the use of the term "decided" in Article 13(b) was deliberate so as to make the availability of the Peace Clause not dependent upon the support ­ for example, as measured through budgetary outlays ­ actually "provided" during the 1992 marketing year. This interpretation is further supported by Members' decision not to use the term "Aggregate Measurement of Support" in this part of Article 13(b)(ii). That is, Members did not choose to make the applicability of the Peace Clause contingent on comparison of a Member's product-specific Aggregate Measurement of Support.
15. The Peace Clause thus exempts from certain actions a Member's non-green box domestic support measures that conform to that Member's overall reduction commitments under Article 6, provided that such measures do not currently "give" or "confer" "product-specific support" in excess of that "determined" or "pronounced" during the 1992 marketing year. The relevant test for the applicability of Article 13(b)(ii) is to compare the product-specific support as it was decided in 1992 versus the product-specific support that existing measures currently grant.
16. US Measures Conform to the Criteria in Article 13(b) and Are Exempt from Actions: US domestic support measures under the 2002 Act were written to grant support for upland cotton within the 1992 marketing year level so that such measures would conform to the Peace Clause criteria. In particular, the 2002 Act shifts support away from the product-specific support that prevailed in 1992 to reduce support linked to the production of upland cotton.
17. The Product-Specific Support for Upland Cotton Decided During 1992 Was To Ensure Income of 72.9 Cents per Pound: The product-specific support in favour of upland cotton decided during the 1992 marketing year was to ensure a level of income ($0.729) for upland cotton farmers for each pound of upland cotton production. That is, US domestic support measures set a rate of support, rather than deciding ex ante a level of budgetary outlay or expenditures. This support was granted by the 1990 Act through two programmes: marketing loans (including marketing loan gains and loan deficiency payments) and deficiency payments.
18. Through marketing loans, the United States in effect guaranteed that cotton producers would realize income equivalent to at least 52.35 cents per pound of upland cotton produced. The United States further ensured cotton farmers would realize income equivalent to 72.9 cents per pound

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-13
of upland cotton produced by making "deficiency payments". By the terms of the 1990 Act and all subsequent implementing regulations, the support "decided" (that is, " determined" or "pronounced") in favour of upland cotton was not expressed in terms of outlays or appropriations but rather as a rate: that is, through both marketing loans and deficiency payments, producer income of 72.9 cents per pound of upland cotton. Thus, budgetary outlays, which reflect the difference between the rates set out in US legislation and regulations (which were decided by the US Government) and market prices (which obviously were not), do not represent the product-specific support "decided" during the 1992 marketing year.
19. US Domestic Support Measures Currently Grant Product-Specific Support to Upland Cotton to Ensure Producer Income of 52 Cents per Pound: Under the 2002 Act, product-specific support is again granted to upland cotton through the marketing loan programme and through user marketing (step 2) payments. Despite a small adjustment in the user marketing (step 2) payment formula, US measures currently in effect grant product-specific support to upland cotton far lower than that decided in the 1992 marketing year. Through the marketing loan programme, the US Government has in effect guaranteed that cotton producers will realize income equivalent to at least 52 cents ($0.52) per pound (the "2002 loan rate") of upland cotton produced. Marketing loans and loan deficiency payments are contingent on a farm's actual production of upland cotton in the current marketing year.
20. Product-specific support decided during the 1992 marketing year for upland cotton was to ensure producer income of 72.9 cents per pound; US domestic support measures currently grant product-specific support only at the rate of 52 cents per pound of production. Even taking into account the minor differences in payment rates for user marketing payments, this comparison indicates that US measures do not grant product-specific support to upland cotton in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year; in fact, current US measures grant product-specific support at a rate more than 20 cents per pound less than that decided during 1992.
21. US Payments That Brazil Has Mischaracterized As Providing Support to a Specific Commodity Do Not Form Part of the Peace Clause Comparison: Direct payments, counter-cyclical payments, and crop insurance are not product-specific support for upland cotton and are therefore irrelevant to the 1992 to 2002 Peace Clause comparison. Direct payments are green box support because they conform to the applicable general and policy-specific criteria under Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement. As green box measures, direct payments are not part of the comparison of "product-specific" support under Article 13(b)(ii). Because direct payments are based on quantities of acreage that historically produced certain commodities, including upland cotton, and there is no requirement to produce upland cotton to receive these payments, however, direct payments are non-product-specific.
22. With respect to counter-cyclical payments, the United States notes that these measures do not grant product-specific support to upland cotton. Product-specific support is " provided for an agricultural product" for the benefit of "the producers of the basic agricultural product". The payment formula for counter-cyclical payments demonstrates that these payments are not "provided for an agricultural product" because it is not current production of upland cotton that qualifies a recipient to receive payment. In addition, it is not "the producers of the basic agricultural product" ­ that is, current upland cotton growers ­ that are entitled to receive the counter-cyclical payments but rather persons (farmers and landowners) on farm acres with past histories of producing covered commodities, including upland cotton. Because counter-cyclical payments are not product-specific support for upland cotton, such payments are not properly part of the Peace Clause comparison under Article 13(b)(ii).
23. Neither does crop insurance grant product-specific support to upland cotton. A variety of insurance plans are now subsidized and reinsured by the United States. The basic programme provisions for crop insurance are generic, not commodity-specific. For example, the US Government

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-14
provides an incentive to participate in the crop insurance programme by subsidizing the premium paid by the farmer. This premium subsidy is available to a broad array of commodities around the country and does not vary by commodity. Thus, while the United States notifies crop insurance as "amber box" domestic support subject to US reduction commitments, crop insurance is "non-product-specific support in favour of agricultural producers in general".
24. Conclusion: US Non-Green Box Domestic Support Measures Are Exempt from Brazil's Subsidies Agreement and GATT 1994 Article XVI Action: Brazil has asserted that US domestic support measures breach the Peace Clause by comparing US budgetary outlays for the 1992 marketing year to US budgetary outlays for marketing years 1999-2001 and its "reasonable" estimates of US outlays for the 2002 marketing year. As noted above, Brazil's interpretation of the Peace Clause and resulting analysis is fundamentally in error. Because the level of income support granted to upland cotton producers is far lower now than the support decided in marketing year 1992, Brazil may not maintain this action and advance claims under GATT 1994 Article XVI:1 or Subsidies Agreement Articles 5 and 6 with respect to US non-green box domestic support measures ­ marketing loan programme payments, user marketing (step 2) certificates, counter-cyclical payments, and crop insurance subsidies.
25. US Step 2 Payments Are Not an Export Subsidy for Upland Cotton: User marketing (Step 2) payments are made to users of upland cotton. Under section 1207 of the 2002 Act, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to issue marketing certificates or cash payments to domestic users and exporters of upland cotton for documented purchases by domestic users and sales for export by exporters. The programme is indifferent to whether recipients of the benefit of this programme are parties that open bales for the processing of manufacturing raw cotton into cotton products in the United States or exporters. Accordingly, the United States reports the benefits conferred under the Step 2 programme as product-specific amber box domestic support.
26. The Step 2 programme is not an export subsidy under Agriculture Agreement Article 9.1 and not an export subsidy in circumvention of the US obligation not to confer an export subsidy with respect to cotton, contrary to Article 10.1. Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement states that "`export subsidies' refers to subsidies contingent upon export performance, including the export subsidies listed in Article 9 of this Agreement". Consequently, to constitute an "export subsidy" for any purposes of the Agreement, the subsidy must first be "contingent on export performance". The benefits of the Step 2 programme are not contingent on export performance.
27. A WTO dispute settlement panel has already determined that such facts do not involve an export subsidy for purposes of both Articles 9 and 10 of the Agriculture Agreement, because the subsidy is not "contingent on export performance". The panel in Canada - Measures Affecting the Importation of Milk and the Exportation of Dairy Products concluded that where a subsidy was available in connection with the exported product but also to processors producing for the domestic market, "access to milk under such other classes is not `contingent on export performance.' We therefore find that such other milk classes do not involve an export subsidy under Article 9.1(a)". For precisely the same reasons, the panel also found that "these other milk classes do not involve an export subsidy in the sense of Article 10.1". Similarly, the Step 2 programme is not an export subsidy inconsistent with Articles 9 and 10 of because the subsidy is not contingent on export performance and therefore is not an export subsidy.
28. Brazil Bears the Burden of Proof to Demonstrate the Existence of an Export Subsidy for Upland Cotton: Brazil as complainant bears the burden of proof with respect to any export subsidy claim relating to upland cotton. Brazil cites Agriculture Agreement Article 10.3 to assert that the United States bears this burden. However, the burden-shift set forth in Article 10.3 is only applicable with respect to exports in excess of a reduction commitment level. As Brazil correctly points out, the United States does not have such a reduction commitment level with respect to upland cotton. Article 10.3 therefore does not apply with respect to US cotton exports. With respect to products for

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-15
which a Member has no scheduled export subsidy reduction commitments, the burden of proof remains with the complainant.
29. US Step 2 Payments Are Not a Prohibited Subsidy Under Article 3 of the Subsidies Agreement: With respect to domestic support, the negotiators of the Agriculture Agreement devised the novel concept of "Aggregate Measurement of Support" (AMS), defined in Article 1(a). As the definition provides, all annual domestic support provided for an agricultural product, like cotton, in favour of the producers of that product that is not otherwise exempt under the "green box" (Annex 2) from reduction commitments, or as otherwise provided in Articles 6.4 and 6.5 of the Agreement, is included in the AMS. The definition further contemplates that support provided during any one year is to be calculated in accordance with the provisions of Annex 3. Paragraph 7 of Annex 3 requires that "measures directed at agricultural processors shall be included [in the AMS] to the extent such measures benefit the producers of the basic agricultural products".
30. Accordingly, Step 2 user payments, directed at upland cotton processors and other users but intended to benefit US producers of upland cotton, are included in the annual AMS calculation of the United States. As a result, such payments are subject to reduction commitments applicable to the United States. Agriculture Agreement Article 6.3 provides that "a Member shall be considered to be in compliance with its domestic support reduction commitments in any year in which its domestic support in favour of agricultural producers expressed in terms of Current Total AMS does not exceed the corresponding annual or final bound commitment level specified in Part IV of the Member's Schedule". Where a particular programme exists in favour of agricultural producers within such Current Total AMS, the Agriculture Agreement is entirely agnostic as to the method of delivery of such support.
31. The United States is in compliance with its domestic support reduction commitments, of which support in the form of the Step 2 programme is a constituent part, as provided in the Agriculture Agreement. Articles 3.1(a) and 3.1(b) of the Subsidies Agreement apply "except as provided in the Agreement on Agriculture". The conformity of the Step 2 programmes with the terms, object and purpose of the Agriculture Agreement ­ and in particular the domestic support reduction commitments ­ constitute precisely the kind of exception contemplated in the introductory words of Article 3. Inasmuch as Articles 3.1(a) and (b) do not apply to Step 2 payments, the Step 2 programme also cannot violate Subsidies Agreement Article 3.2.
32. US Step 2 Payments Are Not Inconsistent with GATT 1994 Article III:4: As contemplated by the terms of the Step 2 programme itself, as well as Annex 3 of the Agriculture Agreement, the Step 2 programme provides benefits in favour of US upland cotton producers. As noted above, the Step 2 programme is in conformity with Agriculture Agreement Article 6. In addition, Agriculture Agreement Article 3.1 provides that the domestic support commitments in Part IV of each Member's Schedule are made an integral part of GATT 1994. The domestic support commitments of the United States are therefore an integral part of GATT 1994 itself, and Agriculture Agreement Article 21.1 expressly states that "the provisions of GATT 1994 . . . shall apply subject to the provisions of this Agreement".
33. Pursuant to Article 6.3 of the Agriculture Agreement, "a Member shall be considered to be in compliance with its domestic support reduction commitments in any year in which its domestic support in favour of agricultural producers expressed in terms of Current Total AMS does not exceed the corresponding annual or final bound commitment level specified in Part IV of the Member's Schedule". Annex 3, paragraph 7, specifically requires that "[m]easures directed at processors shall be included" in the calculation of AMS to subject these measures to the domestic support reduction commitments established for the first time in the Agriculture Agreement. The Step 2 programme exists in favour of agricultural producers within such Current Total AMS, and the text of the Agriculture Agreement does not prohibit any particular form of delivery of such amber box domestic support.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-16
34. The Agriculture Agreement imposed for the first time rigorous disciplines on agricultural support. The domestic support reduction commitments of the United States constitute an integral part of GATT 1994. A coherent reading of the Agriculture Agreement with the GATT 1994 indicates that the Step 2 programme does not violate GATT 1994 Article III:4.
35. The Commodity Credit Corporation Export Credit Guarantee Programmes are Not Export Subsidies: During the Uruguay Round, negotiators did not reach agreement on disciplines on all areas that had been the subject of negotiations, in several cases agreeing to continue negotiating after the close of the Round and the entry into force of the WTO Agreement. The simple fact is that during the Uruguay Round WTO Members did not agree on disciplines to be applicable to export credits, export credit guarantees, and insurance programmes. Unable to reach agreement on such disciplines within the Uruguay Round, Members opted to continue discussions in an appropriate forum, deferring the imposition of substantive disciplines until a consensus was achieved.
36. Following the entry into force of the WTO Agreement, numerous WTO Members commenced negotiations under the auspices of the OECD to achieve such internationally agreed disciplines. When such negotiations failed to achieve an agreement, negotiations on disciplines for export credits and export credit guarantees have subsequently continued both under the reform process contemplated under Article 20 of the Agriculture Agreement and the mandate of the Doha Ministerial Declaration.
37. The scope and detail of the current agriculture negotiations as reflected in the Harbinson text demonstrate that the Members are currently engaged in active negotiations on disciplines for export credits and credit guarantees. Among the areas under active discussion include disciplines on the relationship between premiums, term, and long-term operating costs and losses. These discussions would be unnecessary if existing disciplines applied to such programmes in agriculture. The Panel should not pre-empt such negotiations.
38. The text of Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement reflects the deferral of disciplines on export credit guarantee programmes contemplated by WTO Members. As simply reflected in the structure and text of the Agriculture Agreement, Members came to no agreement with respect to substantive disciplines on export credit guarantee programmes. Article 10.2 stands in stark contrast to Article 9.1. Article 9.1 sets forth a list of six very specific practices known to the drafters and deemed to constitute export subsidies under the Agriculture Agreement. Significantly, the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies in the Subsidies Agreement explicitly addresses export credit and credit guarantee practices in its item (j). Conspicuously absent in Article 9.1 is any provision addressing such practices, even though US export credit guarantee programmes had been in existence for nearly fifteen years preceding the inception of obligations under the WTO.
39. To include US export credit guarantee programmes within the ambit of Article 10.1 or within the definition of export subsidy under Article 1(e) of the Agreement would render the work programme envisioned by Article 10.2 unnecessary. Further, to adhere to the approach that Brazil advocates would allow for the utter irrelevance of Article 10.2. Indeed, Brazil unabashedly makes not one reference to Article 10.2 in its initial submission.
40. CCC Export Credit Guarantees are Not Prohibited Export Subsidies Under the Subsidies Agreement: Brazil has alleged that the CCC export credit guarantee programmes are prohibited subsidies under Article 3.1(a) of the Subsidies Agreement. The very first words of Article 3.1 of the Subsidies Agreement, however, are: "Except as provided in the Agreement on Agriculture." Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement, as noted above, provides for the deferral of disciplines unless and until internationally agreed disciplines are in fact achieved. Brazil has conveniently ignored both Article 10.2 and the explicit introductory words of the Subsidies Agreement Article 3.1 in its first submission. However, Brazil concedes that the export credit guarantees are "exempt from action under ASCM Article 3.1(a) if they fully conform to the provisions of [Agreement

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-17
on Agriculture] Part V". These programmes are in conformity with Article 10.2, which is within such Part V. In addition, Article 21.1 explicitly provides that the Multilateral Trade Agreements in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement, which include the Subsidies Agreement, shall apply subject to the Agriculture Agreement.
41. Brazil alleges that the export credit guarantee programmes constitute an export subsidy for purposes of the Subsidies Agreement because such programmes fall within item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies. Brazil alleges the United States provides export credit guarantees for cotton "at premium rates which are inadequate to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the programmes" and that a ten-fiscal-year period "fulfils the criterion of being `long-term' within the meaning of item (j)". Quite simply, with respect to cotton, for the last 10 fiscal years for which complete data is available, premiums paid exceed claims paid. As with any other insurance-type programme, moreover, a proper analysis of "losses" should involve the calculation of the net result of premiums collected, plus claims amounts repaid or rescheduled, minus claims paid. Such calculation would properly reflect the net position of the programme.
42. For the 10-year period from fiscal year 1993 through fiscal year 2002, premiums collected total $16,026,202 and losses incurred via claims total $4,768,096. Consequently, even before any post-default recoveries, premiums exceeded claims paid. Of claims incurred, $1,015,365 were subsequently directly recovered, and an additional $8,175,570 have been rescheduled. Brazil argues that the United States "must at the very least recover their operating costs by virtue of fees or premiums collected". Without conceding that this is the applicable test by which the conformity of export credit guarantee programmes with WTO obligations should be assessed, nevertheless, the US programmes for cotton satisfy this Brazilian suggestion.
43. Brazil, like any complainant, bears the burden of establishing that export credit programmes fall within the terms of item (j). Brazil, the United States, and the Appellate Body would apparently agree, however, that a contrario, to the extent a WTO Member provides, as the United States has already demonstrated with respect to cotton, export credit guarantees at premium rates which do cover long-term operating costs and losses of the programmes, then it is not an export subsidy within the meaning of item (j) and the Subsidies Agreement. Premiums collected for US export credit guarantees in connection with cotton transactions over the last 10 fiscal years exceed long-term operating costs and losses. Under the criteria of item (j) alone, these programmes do not constitute a prohibited export subsidy within the meaning of the Subsidies Agreement and are not prohibited under Article 3.1(a) nor inconsistent with Article 3.2.
44. Brazil Has Failed to Make a Prima Facie Case Regarding the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act of 2000: With respect to its claims concerning the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act of 2000 ("ETI Act"), in its first submission Brazil has not presented any evidence regarding the ETI Act itself and does nothing more than "reiterate[] the claims brought by the European Communities under the [Agriculture Agreement] and the Subsidies Agreement in US ­ FSC (21.5), and ask[] the Panel to apply the reasoning as developed by the panel and as modified by the Appellate Body in that case mutatis mutandis". In so doing, Brazil has failed to make a prima facie case with respect to the ETI Act. Brazil's approach would put the Panel in the position of having to violate its obligation under DSU Article 11 to "make an objective assessment of the matter before it, including an objective assessment of the facts of the case and the applicability of and conformity with the relevant covered agreements". As a result of Brazil's approach, the Panel is in no position to exercise its judgment to follow, or decline to follow, prior reports concerning the ETI Act, nor even in a position to make factual findings concerning the Act. In the absence of a prima facie case by Brazil, the Panel should reject Brazil's claims concerning the ETI Act.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-18

ANNEX B-3
THIRD-PARTY SUBMISSION BY ARGENTINA 15 July 2003

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

I. INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................19

II. WORLD COTTON MARKET SITUATION AND IMPACT OF THE US SUBSIDIES IN ARGENTINA ...............................................................................................19

II.1. WORLD COTTON MARKET SITUATION ...........................................................................19

II.2. COTTON SITUATION IN THE UNITED STATES................................................................20

II.3. COTTON SITUATION IN ARGENTINA ...............................................................................21

(a) Impact of low international prices on Argentine production ....................................................21

(b) Impact of low international prices on employment ...................................................................22

(c) Impact of low international prices on income...........................................................................23

(d) Impact of low international prices on the value and volume of Argentine exports...................23

III. LOSS OF PROTECTION UNDER THE PEACE CLAUSE: ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE (AOA).............................................................24

PEACE CLAUSE DEFENCE SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS ..............................................................25
BURDEN OF PROOF WITH RESPECT TO THE CONDITIONS FOR THE PEACE CLAUSE DEFENCE .............................................................................................................................25

III.1 LOSS OF PEACE CLAUSE PROTECTION IN RELATION TO DOMESTIC SUPPORT MEASURES: ARTICLE 13 (B) (II) OF THE AOA ................................................26
The programmes Production Flexibility Contract (PFC), Direct Payment (DP) and Counter-Cyclical Payment (CCP) are non-"green box" ...........................................................27
Failure of the United States to comply with its notification obligations ...................................28
THE US LEVELS OF DOMESTIC SUPPORT FOR COTTON EXCEED THE 1992 LEVEL ..........28
III.2 LOSS OF PEACE CLAUSE PROTECTION IN RELATION TO EXPORT SUBSIDIES: ARTICLE 13(C)(II) OF THE AOA .....................................................................30
Inconsistency with the provisions of Part V (Articles 8 to 11) of the AoA ................................31
IV. INCONSISTENCY WITH ARTICLES 3.3, 8 AND 10.1 OF THE AOA AND ARTICLE 3 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT.........................................................................31
ARTICLE 10.3 OF THE AoA ...............................................................................................................32
THE INDIVIDUAL EXPORT SUBSIDY PROGRAMMES ................................................................32 - Step 2 Export Programme............................................................................................................32 - The programmes GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP: .....................................................................33 - ETI ACT ......................................................................................................................................35
V. CONCLUSION........................................................................................................................35

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-19
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Argentina thanks the Panel for this opportunity to present its views as a third party to these proceedings and will address Brazil's claims1 of inconsistency of the subsidy programmes provided by the United States to US producers, users and exporters of upland cotton, as well as legislation, regulations and statutory instruments and amendments thereto providing such subsidies.
In addition, Argentina will discuss the export credit guarantee programmes provided by the United States for exports of cotton and other commodities that are also exported by Argentina.
2. Given the little time available between the receipt on 11 July of the responding party submission of the United States and the date fixed for this third-party submission, Argentina will comment on the US submission at the meeting of the Panel with the parties and third parties scheduled on 24 July.
3. Firstly, Argentina proposes to argue the absence of US protection under Article 13(b)(ii) and (c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture (hereinafter "AoA"), since the United States does not fulfil the legal requirements for protection against claims under Article XVI of the GATT 1994 and Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (hereinafter "SCM Agreement").
4. Secondly, Argentina will argue that the domestic support measures challenged by Brazil are inconsistent with Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement to the extent that they cause adverse effects to the interests of other Members, including Argentina. It will also argue that the United States grants export subsidies that are prohibited under Article 3(a) and (b) of the SCM Agreement.
5. Nevertheless, Argentina has taken note of the Panel's decision of 20 June to express its views, by 1 September next, on whether the measures at issue satisfy the conditions in Article 13 of the AoA and to differ its consideration of the claims under Article XVI of the GATT 1994 and Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement as those provisions are referred to in Article 13 of the AoA.
6. Argentina will therefore address the inconsistency of the US subsidies with Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement in the submission of 22 September next, providing evidence that the US may not invoke protection under Article 13 of the AoA since it does not fulfil the conditions for protection under that provision.
7. Lastly, Argentina maintains that US cotton export subsidies are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the AoA, since the Peace Clause cannot be used as a defence in respect of such claims.
II. WORLD COTTON MARKET SITUATION AND IMPACT OF THE US SUBSIDIES IN ARGENTINA
II.1. WORLD COTTON MARKET SITUATION
8. According to data from the Statement of the 61st Plenary Meeting of the International Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC), held in Cairo, Egypt, from 20 to 25 October 20022, world cotton
1 "Brazil´s First Submission to the Panel regarding the 'Peace Clause' and Non-Peace Clause Related Claims", 24 June 2003. (Hereinafter "Brazil's Submission").
2 Representatives of 38 governments and eight international organizations took part in the meeting. MEMBER GOVERNMENTS: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Chinese Taipei, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Republic of Korea, Mali, Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa,

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-20
production reached a record 21.5 million tons in marketing year 2001/2002, exceeding global consumption by 1.3 millions tons.
9. Over the same period, world cotton exports increased by 10 per cent to an unprecedented 6.5 million tons, while international cotton prices fell to the lowest average level in 30 years of US$0.418 per pound (according to Cotlook Index A).
10. The value of world production declined by US$5 billion from the previous season, affecting the incomes of millions of growers, input suppliers and service providers in unsubsidized countries.
11. Since the mid-1990s, the world cotton economy has been marked by chronic price depression. Average international cotton prices, adjusted for inflation, are at their lowest since the Great Depression of 1930, having remained below US$0.60 per pound for the last four consecutive years (1998/1999 to 2001/2002) against an average of US$0.725 per pound over the past 25 years.
12. According to the ICAC, at 1 July 2003 the average international cotton price in marketing year 2002/2003 was estimated at US$0.56 per pound, still well below the average of the last 30 years. Under such conditions, even the most efficient producers find themselves operating at a loss, unable to cover even their production costs. ICAC projections suggest that prices will remain chronically depressed for the foreseeable future. Forecasts point to a modest recovery in 2003/2004, but prices will stay within the US$0.50-0.60/lb range until 2015.
II.2. COTTON SITUATION IN THE UNITED STATES
13. As a rule, when prices slump production undergoes a similar downturn. However, while world cotton prices have fallen by 54 per cent since the mid-1990s, the United States has increased its output and exports.
14. Since 1998, US cotton production has experienced 42 per cent growth from 14 million metric tons to a record 20.3 million metric tons in 2001.
15. Likewise, at a time of dramatically declining international cotton prices the volume of US exports has expanded to unprecedented levels, from 946,000 tons in 1998 to 2,395,000 tons in 2002.3
16. In addition, US cotton production costs are among the highest in the world. According to a recent ICAC study4, the cost of production in the United States was US$0.81 per pound of cotton in marketing year 1999,5 while US producers market prices fell from US$0.60 to US$0.30 per pound.
17. The only possible explanation how the United States bridged the widening gap between production costs and market prices is subsidies, for without them many US producers would have been compelled to cease production.
18. Hence the factor underlying the world cotton market crisis is the US subsidies. As Brazil points out at paragraph 2 of its Submission, it was the subsidies that enabled the United States to
Spain, Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Togo, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Uzbekistan and Zimbabwe.
3 According to data from "Cultivating Poverty: The Impact of U.S. Cotton Subsidies on Africa", Oxfam Briefing Paper 30, 27 September 2002 (See Exhibit Bra-15) and ICAC Secretariat.
4 "Cotton: World Statistics". Bulletin of the International Cotton Advisory Committee, September 2002. (Exhibit Bra-9).
5 As stated by Brazil at paragraph 32 of its Submission, the cost of production in Argentina averaged 59 cents/lb of cotton, according to the ICAC study (See Exhibit Bra-9).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-21
increase production and exports while market prices remained far below the cost of production over marketing years 1999 to 2002.
19. The total value of US cotton subsidies during this period ­ as stated at paragraph 3 of Brazil's Submission ­ amounted to almost US$13 billion and the average cotton subsidization rate was 95 per cent.6
20. While there are a great many cotton producing countries, four of them (China, the United States, India and Pakistan, in descending order) alone account for two thirds of world cotton production. Most of the cotton is used in the producing country itself. The great exception to this rule is the United States, which exports over half of the cotton it produces7 and is the world's leading exporter. This is why the level of subsidization in the United States is so important as far as the world cotton market is concerned.
II.3. COTTON SITUATION IN ARGENTINA
21. Argentina's cotton sector is a substantial source of employment and income for many of the country's provinces. The Argentine cotton sector has been contracting since 1998, as a result of declining international prices. In 2001/2002, cultivated area and production plummeted to historic low levels. Cultivated area has shrunk by 76 per cent since 1998, with 174,000 hectares planted to cotton, and production has fallen by 63 per cent compared to 1998, with an estimated 73,000 tons of cotton fibre produced.8
22. According to the Argentine Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food, provisional estimates as at 13 June 2003 for marketing year 2002/2003 were 157,930 hectares of cultivated area and 60,000 tons of cotton produced.
23. The decline is even more significant when considered in terms of a 10-year annual average, record prices in 1994/1995 (US$0.9275/lb Cotlook A Index) having led to record figures for both cultivated area and production (1,010,000 hectares and 437,000 tons of cotton fibre in 1995/1996).
24. The contraction of the cotton sector started in 1997/1998. Since then, steadily falling prices and increased US government support have gradually driven raw cotton9 producer prices down to their lowest level (US$192/ton) since 1991/1992, which in turn has entailed constant reductions in cultivated area and production.
25. Although domestic consumption is dwindling, Argentine exports of cotton fibre set another historic low record of 18,366 tons in 2001/2002. Data updated at 31 May 2003 show even worse results, since exports for marketing year 2002/2003 barely reached 2,000 metric tons.
(a) Impact of low international prices on Argentine production
26. Over the last three years, low international prices ­ because of the huge US subsidies ­ have impacted heavily on producers' decisions, with only 309,287 cultivated hectares, representing a 58 per cent reduction from a 10-year annual average (1989/1990 to 1998/1999). This has led to sharp reductions in cotton fibre production. Over that same three-year period (1999/2000 to 2001/2002), production averaged 122,883 tons ­ a 62 per cent fall from the annual average of 327,360 tons
6 USDA Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton (January 2003). (See Exhibit Bra-4). 7 As indicated at paragraph 10 of Brazil's Submission, domestic cotton consumption in the United States is dwindling steadily. 8 "Argentina: Economic Injury to the Cotton Sector as a Result of Low Prices", Working Group on Government Measures of the International Cotton Advisory Committee, 2002. 9 Seed cotton; unginned.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-22

between 1994/1995 and 1998/1999. Worse still, production in 2001/2002 was estimated at 69,810 tons and in 2002/2003 at 60,000 tons, against 163,000 tons in 2000/2001.

27. This collapse of the Argentine cotton sector is reflected in the high level of indebtedness of producers estimated at US$600 million and equivalent to twice the size of agricultural GDP of Argentina's largest cotton producing province.

28. The table below shows the direct relationship between the area of cultivated and harvested cotton and fibre production in Argentina, and trends in world cotton prices according to Cotlook A Index.

Season
1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03* * Estimate

Cotton area (hectares) Cultivated 1,010,000 955,600 1,133,500 751,000 345,950 407,980 173,930 157,930

Harvested 969,400 887,140 877,900 639,700 332,100 384,850 170,000 147,410

Fibre production
(Metric tons) 437,000 338,000 311,000 200,000 134,000 165,000 73,000 60,000

World price A Index (US cents/lb) 85.60 78.55 72.20 58.90 52.80 57.20 41.80 55.30

TRENDS IN ARGENTINE COTTON PRODUCTION

Hectares

1,200,000 1,000,000
800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000
0 1990- 1991- 1992- 1993- 1994- 1995- 1996- 1997- 1998- 1999- 2000- 2001-
91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02
Marketing Year

Series1 Series2

(b) Impact of low international prices on employment

29. Total employment in raw cotton production in Argentina amounts to 93,470 workers; this figure includes 32,060 cotton producers and is based on an average harvested area of 810,828 hectares. The ginning sector employs 3,946 workers and the marketing and input supply chain represents 12,550 additional jobs.

30. Between 1999/2000 and 2001/2002, employment in the cotton sector decreased to an average of 70,400 workers, i.e. a reduction in employment of 64 per cent. These figures were obtained from the official employment records of registered workers but they are probably underestimated. According to private estimates, there are 50,000 non-registered workers, which would increase labour loss to 102,000 jobs.

31. Argentina's cotton production is concentrated in 11 provinces and, according to a 1999 World Bank study, 56.6 per cent of the population in these provinces live under the poverty line and 18.2 per cent below the indigence line. The same study shows that 36.1 per cent of Argentina's population live

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-23

under the poverty line and 8.6 per cent below the indigence line, which reflects the higher level of poverty in the cotton producing provinces.10

(c) Impact of low international prices on income
32. Between 1999/2000 and 2001/2002, average raw cotton production11 was 652,872 tons lower than the 1994/1995 to 1998/1999 average. Using an average price received by producers of US$358/ton12 between 1994/1995 and 1998/1999, annual gross revenue has dropped by US$255 million over the past three years.

(d) Impact of low international prices on the value and volume of Argentine exports

33. In marketing year 2002/2003, planted area shrank to a mere 157,930 hectares, its lowest level in the last 66 years, and production will not even succeed in meeting domestic demand. Even in circumstances like these, it might have been possible to generate sufficient export supply had international prices not been artificially depressed.

34. It should be emphasized that in 1996 Argentina exported 70 per cent of its production, ranking that year as the world's fourth largest exporter.

35. The table below shows the trends in Argentine cotton exports.

TRENDS IN ARGENTINE COTTON EXPORTS

Years Volume

(tons)

1995

243,474

1996

357,447

1997

214,904

1998

177,025

1999

180,897

2000

53,637

2001

89,262

2002

18,366

2003* 1,985

*(Estimate at 31 May 2003)

FOB value (US$ millions) 432.8 497.0 332.3 224.3 177.9 53.2 72.8 11.9 1.6

Argentina's per cent share of world exports 4% 6% 3.6% 3.2% 3% 0.9% 1.5% 0.1% --

10 Id. 11 Seed cotton; unginned. 12 For a quality equal to a C-1/2 grade.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-24

36. In chart form, Argentine cotton exports (tons) since 1995 show the following trends:
400000 350000 300000 250000 200000 150000 100000
50000 0 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003*

37. This chart shows ­ as does the table below ­ a direct relationship between the decline in international cotton prices, which began in 1996/1997, along with the implementation of the 1996 US Farm Act, and the collapse of the Argentine cotton economy.

Years
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003*

Argentine cotton exports (FOB value in US$ millions) 497.0 332.3 224.3 177.9 53.2 72.8 11.9 1.6

Cotlook A Index (US$/lb) 0.7855 0.7220 0.5890 0.5280 0.5720 0.4180 0.5530 ---

38. The following chart clearly illustrates the direct relationship (except for the year 2000) between Argentine exports and international cotton prices.

Argentine cotton exports (f.o.b. value in US$ millions)
500 400 300 200 100
0

Cotlook A Index (US$/lb)
0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2
0

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001

III. LOSS OF PROTECTION UNDER THE PEACE CLAUSE: ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE (AOA)
39. As stated in paragraph 6 above, Argentina will address the inconsistency of the United States subsidies with Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement in the 22 September submission. On that occasion, Argentina will explain why the United States cannot seek the protection of Article 13 of the AoA because of non-compliance with the legal requirements for protection under that provision.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-25
PEACE CLAUSE DEFENCE SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS
40. The "Peace Clause" ­ Article 13 of the AoA ­ precludes actions against a Member's agricultural subsidies up to 1 January 2004 if such measures comply with certain legal requirements.
41. As stated by Argentina in its Third Party Initial Brief:
"... a textual analysis of Article 13 of the AoA reveals that "actions"... can only be precluded if all conditions established in paragraphs (b) (ii) or (c) (ii) of the referred Article 13 are met".13 (Emphasis added).
...
" ... 'Exempt from actions' means that a finding of inconsistency with Article XV1 of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement will not be possible if the legal requirements for the exemption are fulfilled. The immediate context of the term 'exempt from actions' ­ i.e., paragraphs (b) and (c) ­ confirms this interpretation since that exemption requires a particular threshold, i.e. that domestic support measures and export subsidies 'conform fully' (to different provisions of the AoA)".14
...
" ... A different interpretation would imply giving the measures allegedly covered by the Peace Clause a character of absolute immunity, independent of whether the legal requirements established in Article 13 are fulfilled or not. This would contradict the principle of in dubio mitius, constituting a more onerous interpretation of the treaty provisions".15
...
" ... Indeed, the key words in Article 13 (b) (ii) and (c) (ii) of the AoA are "that conform fully" and "provided that" and "that conform fully", respectively. These words imply that the exception is not absolute, but rather subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions ... ".16
BURDEN OF PROOF WITH RESPECT TO THE CONDITIONS FOR THE PEACE CLAUSE DEFENCE
42. As Argentina stated in its Third Party Initial Brief, the defence under Article 13 of the AoA is in the nature of an exception (affirmative defence).
43. It follows that in accordance with the WTO rules on the burden of proof (laid down by the Appellate Body in (United States ­ Shirts and Blouses from India), the burden is on the party invoking the exception to show that its use is justified. In the present case, it is clearly for the party invoking the protection of Article 13 of the AoA to show that the conditions stipulated in that Article are satisfied.
44. Accordingly, for the United States domestic support measures to be exempt from actions based on Article XVI.1 of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement, the United States must show that:
13 See Argentina's Third Party Initial Brief of 10 June 2003, paragraph 3. 14 Ibidem paragraph 5. 15 Ibidem, paragraph 6. 16 Ibidem, paragraph 8.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-26
- The domestic support measures for cotton conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2 to the AoA (or belong in the "green box", at the risk of being included in the Current Total AMS in accordance with Article 7.2 (a) of the AoA), or that
- the domestic support measures that do not belong in the "green box" and grant support to cotton do not exceed the support decided during the 1992 marketing year.
45. Likewise in order for the export subsidies granted by the United States to be exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 and Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement the United States must show that these export subsidies conform fully to Articles 8 to 11 of the AoA (Part V).
III.1 LOSS OF PEACE CLAUSE PROTECTION IN RELATION TO DOMESTIC SUPPORT MEASURES: ARTICLE 13 (B) (II) OF THE AoA
46. In particular, in relation to domestic support measures, Article 13 (b) (ii) of the AoA states that:
"During the implementation period, notwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies ... :
... domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement including direct payments that conform to the requirements of paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, shall be:
...
exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year; ..." (emphasis added).
47. In Argentina's opinion, in the present case, for lack of a specific WTO notification or known US laws or regulations, the support "decided during the 1992 marketing year" by the United States should be considered to be the non-"green box" domestic support granted by that country to cotton during the 1992 marketing year.
48. Argentina agrees with Brazil that the level of subsidies granted by the United States to its cotton sector during marketing years 1999 to 2002 exceeded that of 1992, thereby depriving the United States of Peace Clause protection, for non-compliance with the legal requirements of Article 13 (b) (ii) of the AoA.
49. In this respect, the Oxfam Briefing Paper ("Cultivating Poverty: The impact of USCotton Subsidies on Africa")17 states that:
"The US has lost this protection (the Peace Clause protection) by virtue of the fact that the level of subsidies it provided in 2001 was double that provided in 1992".
...
17 See Exhibit Bra ­ 15.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-27
"Every acre of cotton farmland in the US attracts a subsidy of $230, or around five times the transfer for cereals. In 2001/02 farmers reaped a bumper harvest of subsidies amounting to $3.9bn ­ double the level in 1992. This increase in subsidies is a breach of the "Peace Clause" in the WTO Agreement on Agriculture ..."
...
"The United States accounts for approximately one-half of the world's production subsidies for cotton. In 2001/02 the value of US cotton production amounted to $3bn at world market prices. In the same year, the value of outlays in the form of subsidies to cotton farmers by the USDA's Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) was $3.9bn. In other words, cotton was being produced at a net cost to the American economy".
50. The domestic support measures which, in Argentina's view, do not enjoy Peace Clause protection under Article 13 (b) (ii) are the following programmes established in the United States legislation as described by Brazil in its First Submission: Deficiency Payments18, Loan Deficiency Payments19, Production Flexibility Contract Payments20, Direct Payments21, Market Loss Assistance22, Counter-Cyclical Payments23, Marketing Loan Gains24, Crop Insurance Subsidies25, Step 2 Domestic Payments26, and Cottonseed Payments27.
51. It should be pointed out that in the consultations held on 3, 4 and 19 December 2002 ­ in which Argentina was joined ­ in relation to the above-mentioned programmes Argentina requested the United States for information on the amount of support granted to cotton producers in the years 1999, 2000 and 2001, considering that the last domestic support notification had been for the year 199828.
52. In this connection, the United States confined itself to pointing out that various answers to the Argentine questions could be found in US domestic support notifications in the process of being submitted to the Committee on Agriculture, without specifying what these answers were or when these notifications would be made.
The programmes Production Flexibility Contract (PFC), Direct Payment (DP) and Counter-Cyclical Payment (CCP) are non-"green box"
53. As Brazil shows in its Submission, the PFC, DP and CCP programmes are not subsidies that can be classified as "domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2" of the AoA.
54. Accordingly, the amounts granted to cotton producers under these programmes must be treated as domestic support in calculating total support under Article 13(b)(ii).
55. These three programmes are inconsistent with Annex 2 of the AoA, inter alia, because they are not in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 (b) of that Annex in as much as the amount of
18 Submission by Brazil, paragraphs 45 to 47. 19 Ibidem, paragraphs 70 to 78 and Exhibits Bra ­ 28, Bra ­ 29 and Bra ­ 36. 20 Ibidem, Sections 2.6.1 and 3.2.6. 21 Ibidem, Sections 2.6.2 and 3.2.7. 22 Ibidem, Section 2.6.3. 23 Ibidem, Sections 2.6.4 and 3.2.8. 24 Ibidem, Section 2.6.5. 25 Ibidem, Section 2.6.6 26 Ibidem, Section 2.6.8 27 Ibidem, Section 2.6.10. 28 It should be noted that after the consultations the United States notified the Committee on Agriculture of the amount of domestic support for the year 1999 (G/AG/N/USA/43; Exhibit Bra ­ 47).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-28
payments is related with the type of production undertaken by the producer in years after the base period.
56. In this respect, Argentina agrees with Brazil that the term "type ... of production ..." means the type of crop planted and not the production method employed.
Failure of the United States to comply with its notification obligations 57. Considering (i) that the last domestic support notification available is that for the year 199929 and (ii) the delay of more than three years, since the end of that year, in submitting a notification, Argentina wishes to make the following points:
58. Argentina considers that the United States has failed to fulfil its notification obligations under Article 18.2 of the AoA, the Decision on Notification Procedures adopted on 15 December 1993 and the Notification Requirements and Formats (G/AG/2) adopted by the Committee on Agriculture on 8 June 1995.
59. This failure to comply with notification obligations makes it very difficult to verify the domestic support provided from 2000 onwards as regards compliance with the commitments under Article 3.2 of the AoA, that is to say, whether or not the United States' non-"green box" subsidy programmes remain within the limits to which it is committed in its Schedule. The lack of notification also makes it difficult to verify whether the domestic support measures "conform fully to Article 6" of the AoA.
60. It is also difficult to review the implementation of the AoA by the United States under Article 18.2 in relation to the categorization of its subsidies, in particular whether some of them are "green box" or not.
61. The seriousness of failure to comply with the obligation to inform Members is such that paragraph 7 of Annex V to the SCM Agreement actually sanctions instances of non-cooperation by requiring the Panel to draw adverse inferences.
62. Argentina considers that this failure should be taken into account in deciding whether the United States' domestic support is consistent with Article 3.2 of the AoA and whether that domestic support should be included among the subsidies of Annex II to the Agreement.
THE US LEVELS OF DOMESTIC SUPPORT FOR COTTON EXCEED THE 1992 LEVEL
63. Argentina agrees with Brazil's figures in paragraphs 144, 148 and 149 of its First Submission showing that the United States budgetary outlays for domestic support for the cotton sector have been as follows (in millions of dollars), on the basis of information supplied by the USDA itself30:
29 G/AG/N/USA/43 (Exhibit Bra-47). 30 See Exhibits Bra-6, Bra-76, Bra-4, Bra-57, Bra-55, Bra-47, and footnotes 301 and 321.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-29

Domestic

Marketing Marketing Marketing Marketing Marketing

Support Loan

Year 1992 268

Year 1999 685

Year 2000 152

Year 2001 743

Year 2002* 20631

Deficiency

Payments

Marketing

476

860

390

1.763

60232

Loan Gains

(Total

--- --- --- --- 95233

Marketing

Loan

Payments)

Deficiency

1,017

---

---

---

---

Payments

Production

---

616 575 474

---

Flexibility

Contract Payments34

Direct

--- --- --- --- 523

Payments35

Step 2

207 422 236 196 317

Payments

Crop

26.5 170 161 263 194

Insurance

Payments

Market Loss

---

613 612 654

---

Assistance

Payments

Counter-

---

---

---

--- 1,077

Cyclical Payments36

Cottonseed

---

79 185 ---

50

Payments

TOTAL

1,994.5

3,445

2,311

4,093

3,113

* The information relating to United States support for cotton during marketing year 2002 is

not yet complete as the marketing year does not end until 31 July 2003. Nevertheless, Argentina has

used the best available evidence provided by Brazil in paragraph 149 of its Submission using partial

USDA data and estimates based on criteria and provisions of support under the 1996 FAIR Act.

64. Thus, the subsidy levels for cotton in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 are considerably in excess of the level for 1992 and, as already pointed out, the United States therefore lacks a basis for its claim,

31 See Exhibit Bra-55. 32 See Exhibit Bra-55. 33 See footnote 338 of Brazil's Submission. 34 According to paragraph 45 of Brazil's Submission, PFC payments replaced the Deficiency Payment
Programme that had existed for years and had been renewed in the 1990 FACT Act. 35 As indicated by Brazil in paragraph 49 of its Submission, direct payments began to be paid in
marketing year 2002 with the passage of the new Farm Act in May 2002 (2002 FSRI Act) and will be paid until
the end of marketing year 2007, in place of the Production Flexibility Contract payments. 36 As indicated by Brazil in paragraph 63 of its Submission, the 2002 Farm Act (2002 FSRI Act)
institutionalized the market loss assistance payments that the United States enacted in marketing years
1998- 2001 with a new programme of counter-cyclical payments up to the end of marketing year 2007.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-30
under Article 13(b)(ii) of the AoA, that its domestic support measures for cotton are exempt from actions based on Article XVI.1 of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement.
III.2 LOSS OF PEACE CLAUSE PROTECTION IN RELATION TO EXPORT SUBSIDIES: ARTICLE 13(c)(ii) OF THE AoA
65. With respect to export subsidies, Article 13(c)(ii) of the AoA states that:
"During the implementation period, notwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies ... :
...
export subsidies that conform fully to the provisions of Part V of this Agreement, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, shall be:
...
exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement". (Emphasis added).
66. In relation to export subsidies, the Peace Clause could only be invoked by the United States if its export subsidies conformed fully to the provisions of Part V of the AoA, that is, Articles 8-11 of the AoA.
67. According to Article 8 of the AoA, "Each Member undertakes not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement and with the commitments as specified in that Member's Schedule".
68. Thus, as Brazil asserts in paragraph 222 of its Submission, the United States can provide export subsidies for agricultural products if it satisfies two conditions: (i) has a reduction commitment for the product in question and (ii) the amount of export subsidies provided does not exceed this reduction commitment.
69. In this case, the measures that Argentina considers to be inconsistent with WTO rules are:
I. the export subsidies for US (upland) cotton established in the United States legislation under the Step 2 Export Program37;
II. the export credit guarantee programmes for cotton and other products, General Sales Manager 102 (GSM 102), General Sales Manager 103 (GSM 103), and Supplied Credit Guarantee Programme (SCGP), as described by Brazil in its First Submission38; and
III. the cotton export subsidies granted under the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000(ETI Act).
37 CFR 1427.103 to 1427.107. 38 Submission by Brazil, sections 2.6.7, 4.1 and 4.1.1 and 2.6.9.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-31
Inconsistency with the provisions of Part V (Articles 8 to 11) of the AoA
70. Article 3.3 of the AoA prohibits the granting of export subsidies in respect of agricultural products not specified in Section II of Part IV of a Member's Schedule39. This provision forms part of the reference to "unconformity with this Agreement and with the commitments as specified in that Member's Schedule" in Article 8 of the AoA.40
71. In fact, Schedule XX of the United States, Part IV (Agricultural Products: Commitments Limiting Subsidization), Section II (Export Subsidies: Budgetary Outlay and Quantity Reduction Commitments)41, does not specify cotton among the products subject to commitments.
72. Consequently, because its export subsidies are not in conformity with the provisions of Part V of the AoA, the United States has no basis for invoking, under Article 13 (c) (ii) of the AoA, the exception to the effect that its cotton export subsidies are exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement.
73. Moreover, as described in Section IV of this submission, neither the US (upland) cotton export subsidies established in the United States legislation under the Step 2 Export programme, nor the export credit guarantee programmes for cotton and other products General Sales Manager 102 (GSM 102), General Sales Manager 103 (GSM 103) and Supplied Guarantee Programme (SCG), nor the subsidies granted to cotton exports under the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000 (ETI Act) are in conformity with Part V of the AoA since they are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the AoA.
IV. INCONSISTENCY WITH ARTICLES 3.3, 8 AND 10.1 OF THE AoA AND ARTICLE 3 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT
74. In accordance with paragraph 7 above, Argentina maintains that the United States cotton export subsidies are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the AoA.
75. As already pointed out, Schedule XX of the United States, Part IV (Agricultural Products: Commitments Limiting Subsidization), Section II (Export Subsidies: Budgetary Outlay and Quantity Reduction Commitments)42, does not specify cotton among the products subject to commitments.
76. Consequently, as noted by Brazil in paragraph 237 of its Submission, any export subsidy provided by the United States to its cotton industry will be inconsistent with Articles 3.3 and 8 of the AoA. In other words, as it has not specified cotton as a product subject to subsidy reduction commitments, the United States has no right to grant this type of support for the product in question, any support granted or proposed constituting a breach of the provisions of Articles 3.3 and 8 of the AoA:
39 Article 3.3 of the AoA reads as follows: "...a Member shall not provide export subsidies listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9 in respect of the agricultural products or groups of products specified in Section II of Part IV of its Schedule in excess of the budgetary outlay and quantity commitment levels specified therein and shall not provide such subsidies in respect of any agricultural product not specified in that Section of its Schedule". (Emphasis added).
40 Article 8 of the AoA reads as follows: "Each Member undertakes not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement and with the commitments as specified in that Member's Schedule". 41 See Exhibit Bra-83. 42 See Exhibit Bra-83.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-32
ARTICLE 10.3 OF THE AoA
77. Argentina wishes to point out that, in accordance with Article 10.3 of the AoA and the Appellate Body's interpretation in "Canada - Dairy Products: Article 21.5 DSU (II)43", it is for the United States to show that quantities exported in excess of the export subsidy reduction commitment level have not been subsidized.
78. Figures 18 and 19 in paragraphs 265 and 266 of Brazil's submission clearly indicate that in the case of both cotton and other agricultural commodities exports of which qualify for the export credit guarantee programmes GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP United States exports during the year 2001 were well in excess of the reduction commitments in its Schedule.
79. Consequently, the United States bears the burden of proving that both for cotton and for other products that benefit from export credit guarantee programmes the export segment in excess of the scheduled reduction commitment has not received any export subsidy.
THE INDIVIDUAL EXPORT SUBSIDY PROGRAMMES
- Step 2 Export Programme
80. Referring to Brazil's observations in paragraphs 244 and 245 of its Submission, Argentina agrees that Section 1207(a) of the Farm Act of 2002 (2002 FSRI Act)44 ­ establishing the Step 2 Export Programme ­ constitutes a per se violation of AoA Articles 3.3 and 8 as it is a mandatory provision, in the same way that the Step 2 Export Programme also constitutes a per se violation of those provisions because of its mandatory nature.
81. Both the corresponding section of the 2002 FSRI Act and the provisions of Section 1427.100 ff. of the Code of Federal Regulations clearly establish that the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) must issue marketing certificates or cash payments to exporters and/or users of US (upland) cotton.
82. The purpose of the programme is to provide a direct incentive for US cotton exports and consists of a direct payment to exporters based on the difference between the US domestic cotton price and the world market price. There can be no doubt that whenever the former is higher than the latter an export subsidy is present in as much as the existence of these payments enables the US product to compete artificially with the lower-cost products of more efficient producers. All these aspects are dealt with in extenso by Brazil in its Submission dated 24 June 200345, and Argentina therefore considers it unnecessary to dwell on a description of the operational details of the programme itself.
83. What Argentina wishes to make clear is the fact ­ to which attention has already been drawn by Brazil ­ that the programme known as Step 2 establishes the right of exporters to receive a subsidy for shipments made in connection with foreign sale operations, while establishing an obligation upon the CCC to grant that subsidy once the particular requirements are satisfied.
84. In "US EXPORT CREDITS: Denials and Double Standards"46, published by Oxfam America, it is noted that:
"In the case of cotton, developing countries are clearly losing out because of the unfair competitive advantage given to US cotton exports. For the marketing year
43 WT/DS103/AB/RW2, WT/DS113/AB/RW2, adopted17 January 2003. 44 See Exhibit Bra-29. 45 Submission by Brazil, Sections 4.1, 4.1.1, 4.1.2, 4.2 ff. 46 Oxfam American Briefing Note, March 2003.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-33
2001/2002, US subsidies to cotton amounted to $4 billion, including, among other programs, export credits. In the 2001/2002 marketing year, the transfer linked with Step 2 cotton subsidies ranged from 0-7 cents per pound, or up to 18 per cent of the world market price. Total export subsidization under this heading was around $197 million in 2001".
85. Insofar as the United States does not specify Upland Cotton in its Schedule of Commitments (see paragraphs 72 and 75 above) and this type of subsidy is granted to cotton under the Step 2 programme, any provision in the legal texts with respect to the granting of such a subsidy makes those texts inconsistent per se with Articles 3.3 and 8 of the AoA, while for the same reason any sum distributed, budgeted or provided for under this programme constitutes a prohibited subsidy within the meaning of Article 3 of the SCM Agreement, which expressly establishes a reservation in respect of the Agreement on Agriculture.
- The programmes GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP:
86. In its submission of 24 June, Brazil establishes unequivocally that the US export credit guarantee programmes constitute export subsidies. For this purpose Brazil carries out a combined analysis of the provisions of the AoA and the SCM Agreement, while also basing its arguments on the relevant WTO case-law47.
87. Argentina agrees with the Brazilian analysis and therefore considers it unnecessary to repeat the description of the operational programmes or the analysis of their legal coverage under the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement. Suffice it to note that Argentina also considers that these programmes constitute export subsidies under item (j) of the Illustrative List in Annex I to the SCM Agreement ­ in as much as the export credit guarantees are granted "at premium rates which are inadequate to cover the long term operating costs and losses of the programmes" ­ thereby resulting in a violation of the provisions of Article 10.1 of the AoA.
88. At the same time, Argentina wishes to emphasize the impact and distorting effect on trade of these export credit guarantees.
89. The export credit guarantee programmes provide incentives for exports for United States agricultural products, in this case cotton and other agricultural products, and the credits are granted on terms more favourable than those available on the market. This situation is clearly reflected in paragraphs 275 to 286 of Brazil's First Written Submission and further illustrated by the Oxfam study "US EXPORT CREDITS: Denials and Double Standards"48 which on page 3 states:
" ... those favourable conditions include lower interest rates, a longer loan repayment period, a smaller down payment, less frequent payments per year and/or the virtual waiver of a fee or premium designed to provide the US government with adequate protection against potential defaults".
90. Likewise, a study carried out by the OECD in 2000, in which the effects of export subsidies granted by various countries are evaluated, indicates that the United States credit guarantee programmes are the most trade-distorting of all those analyzed, in as much as the premiums paid by the beneficiaries are too low to cover the high level of the guarantees granted for long term credits.49
47 Submission by Brazil, Section 4.2.1.4.2. 48 Oxfam America Briefing Note, March 2003. 49 "An analysis of officially supported export credits in agriculture", OECD, 2000.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-34
91. According to the "Summary of FY 2002 Export Credit Guarantee Programme Activity", published on the Federal Agricultural Service (FAS) Website50, the percent shares of export credit guarantee applications, by commodity, for fiscal year 2002 were as follows:
Applications for export credit guarantees, by commodity, Fiscal year 2002, Percent share

oilseeds 22%

cotton and cotton products 7%
other 5%

protein meals 11%
rice 3%

wheat 21%

feed grains 27%
vegetable oils 4%

92. Thus, as the United States does not have export subsidy reduction commitments specified in its Schedule for cotton and other products such as soya, maize (corn) and oilseeds and given the existence of United States export subsidies for cotton and other products, the United States is in violation of Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
93. Finally, it should be noted that the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes can be granted both to products for which reduction commitments exist and to those for which no such commitments exist51. With the respect to the products for which there are reduction commitments, the amounts exported by the United States are well in excess of the levels of those commitments.52 Accordingly, Argentina considers ­ as indicated by Brazil53- that the burden lies with the United States to prove that its excess exports did not benefit from export subsidies, including export credit guarantees.
94. Moreover, since the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes are intended to promote exports of cotton, confirmation of their export subsidy component would imply the presence of a subsidy prohibited within the meaning of Article 3.1 (a) of the SCM Agreement and a violation of Article 10.1 of the AoA ­

50 "US EXPORT CREDITS: Denials and Double Standards", Oxfam America Briefing Note,
March 2003. 51 See Exhibit Bra-84, pages 9, 12 and 17, and Exhibit Bra-73. 52 Submission by Brazil, paragraphs 265 and 266. 53 Submission by Brazil, paragraph 268.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-35
- ETI ACT 95. With respect to the export subsidies granted to cotton under the ETI Act, which provides tax exemptions for US exporters who sell products outside the United States, Argentina refers to the fact that this Act was declared inconsistent with Article 3.1 (a) of the SCM Agreement and Articles 10.1 and 8 of the AoA in the "United States - FSC54" dispute. V. CONCLUSION 96. For the above reasons Argentina considers that both the domestic support measures and the export subsidies granted by the United States to its cotton sector and called into question in these proceedings do not qualify for the protection provided under Article 13, paragraphs (b) (ii) and (c) (ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture. 97. Furthermore, the export subsidies for cotton and other products provided for in the United States legislation in the form of export credit guarantees (GSM 102, GSM 103, and SCGP) are likewise not protected by Article 13 (c) (ii). 98. Argentina also maintains that the subsidies for cotton exports provided for in the United States legislation are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
54 WT/DS108/AB/R adopted on 20 March 2000.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-36

ANNEX B-4

AUSTRALIA'S THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. II. A.
B. (i) (ii) (iii)
(iv) (v) (vi) (vii) (viii) III.
A. (i) (ii)
B.
(i)
(ii)
C.
(i)
(ii)

INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................38
ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE...........................................38
AA ARTICLE 13 IS IN THE NATURE OF AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE AND THE UNITED STATES HAS THE BURDEN OF PROOF .........................................................................................38
THE MEANING OF AA ARTICLE 13(B)(II)...................................................................................40
"Implementation period"...........................................................................................................40
"Domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of [AA] Article 6".............40
"Exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the [SCM Agreement]" ............................................................................................41
"Such measures" .......................................................................................................................41
"Grant support" .........................................................................................................................41
"To a specific commodity"........................................................................................................41
"That decided during the 1992 marketing year" .......................................................................42
Summary of the meaning of AA Article 13(b)(ii).....................................................................42
"PRODUCTION FLEXIBILITY CONTRACT PAYMENTS" AND "DIRECT PAYMENTS" MAY NOT BE CLAIMED AS "GREEN BOX" MEASURES UNDER ANNEX 2 TO THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE .................................42
THE RELEVANT REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPHS 1 AND 6(B) OF AA ANNEX 2 .......................42
"No, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production".............................43
"The amount of such payments in any given year shall not be related to, or based on, the type or volume of production (including livestock units) undertaken by the producer in any year after the base period"...............................................................................43
"PRODUCTION FLEXIBILITY CONTRACT (PFC) PAYMENTS" COULD NOT BE CLAIMED AS "GREEN BOX" PAYMENTS .....................................................................................................44
PFC payments had more than a negligible trade-distorting effect or effect on production, contrary to paragraph 1 of AA Annex 2.................................................................44
PFC payments were related to the type of production undertaken by the producer, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of AA Annex 2 ...............................................................................45
"DIRECT PAYMENTS" FOR UPLAND COTTON MAY NOT BE CLAIMED AS "GREEN BOX" PAYMENTS .................................................................................................................................45
Direct payments are likely to have more than a negligible trade-distorting effect or effect on production, contrary to paragraph 1 of AA Annex 2 .................................................45
Direct payments are related to the type of production undertaken by the producer, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture.................................45

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-37
(iii) Direct payments are related to, or based on, the type or volume of production undertaken by the producer in a year after the base period, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture............................................................................46
IV. "STEP 2" PAYMENTS ARE PROHIBITED SUBSIDIES CONTRARY TO ARTICLES 3.3 AND 8 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AND/OR ARTICLE 3 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT.........................................................................46
A. "STEP 2" EXPORT PAYMENTS ARE PROHIBITED EXPORT SUBSIDIES CONTRARY TO ARTICLES 3.3 AND 8 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AND ARTICLE 3.1(A) AND 3.2 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT ...................................................................................................47
(i) "Step 2" export payments are subsidies contingent upon export performance .........................47
(ii) "Step 2" export payments are export subsidies contrary to Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture.........................................................................................................48
(iii) "Step 2" export payments are prohibited export subsidies contrary to SCM Article 3.............48
B. "STEP 2" DOMESTIC PAYMENTS ARE LOCAL CONTENT SUBSIDIES CONTRARY TO ARTICLE 3 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT.......................................................................................49
C. THE UNITED STATES CANNOT AVOID ITS OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED
SUBSIDIES BY DESIGNING A MEASURE UNDER WHICH ENTITLEMENTS ARE OSTENSIBLY
AVAILABLE IN MULTIPLE CIRCUMSTANCES...............................................................................49
V. CONCLUSION........................................................................................................................50

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-38
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Australia welcomes the opportunity to present its views in this proceeding on US subsidies for upland cotton.
2. Australia notes that this dispute is the first to involve the interpretation and application of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture (AA), the so-called "peace clause". As such, this dispute has particular systemic as well as commercial significance.
3. In this third party Submission, Australia addresses:
I. the nature of AA Article 13 as an affirmative defence, and the meaning of Article 13(b)(ii);
II. whether "production flexibility contract payments" and their successor "direct payments" may be claimed as "green box" support within the meaning of AA Annex 2;
III. whether s.1207(a) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ("the FSRI Act") mandating payments to exporters of US cotton ("Step 2" export payments) is inconsistent with AA Articles 3.3 and 8 and thus is also inconsistent with Article 3 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (the SCM Agreement); and
IV. whether s.1207(a) of the FSRI Act mandating payments to domestic users of US cotton ("Step 2" domestic payments) is inconsistent with Article 3 of the SCM Agreement.
4. Because of the very limited time that has been available to consider the First Written Submission of the United States, Australia will address issues raised in that Submission in its oral statement before the Panel.
II. ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE
A. AA ARTICLE 13 IS IN THE NATURE OF AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE AND THE UNITED STATES HAS THE BURDEN OF PROOF
5. Australia agrees with Brazil that AA Article 13 is in the nature of an affirmative defence and that the United States has the burden of proof on the question of whether the measures at issue fully conform with the applicable conditions of Article 13.
6. Like Article XX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ("GATT"), AA Article 13 "does not establish any `positive obligations' relevant to determining the proper scope of the obligations under [the specified provisions of GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement]. Instead, it sets out circumstances in which Members are entitled to `adopt or maintain' measures that are inconsistent with the obligations imposed under other provisions of [the GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement]".1
7. AA Article 13 does not of itself impose any obligation on a Member granting domestic support measures falling within Annex 2 or Article 6 or granting export subsidies falling within Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture.
1 United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations", Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by the European Communities, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS108/AB/RW, paragraph 127.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-39
8. Instead, AA Article 13 sets out the circumstances in which Members will be immune, either wholly or partially, from the consequences of granting domestic support measures or export subsidies that otherwise constitute grounds for a claim of infringement of the obligations contained in the provisions of GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement specified in that Article. Thus, for example, under AA Article 13(b)(ii), "domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of [the Agreement on Agriculture] ... shall be: ... exempt from actions based on" the specified provisions of GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement, "provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year".
9. The nature of AA Article 13 as an affirmative defence is confirmed by an examination of the protection afforded by Article 13.
10. Under AA Article 13(a)(i), domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of AA Annex 2 "shall be non-actionable subsidies for purposes of countervailing duties". Under AA Article 13(b)(i), domestic support measures that conform fully to AA Article 6 shall be "exempt from the imposition of countervailing duties unless ...". Under AA Article 13(c)(i), export subsidies that conform fully to the provisions of AA Part V shall be "subject to countervailing duties only upon a determination of ...".
11. Under the other provisions of AA Article 13, domestic support measures or export subsidies that conform fully with the prescribed conditions "shall be exempt from actions based on ..." the specified provisions of GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement. If domestic support measures or export subsidies infringe the relevant provisions specified in Article 13, they are nevertheless "free or released from a duty or liability to which others are held"2 in relation to a proceeding3 "found[ed], buil[t] or construct[ed] on"4 those provisions, as long as the measures meet the relevant conditions specified in Article 13.
12. Thus, the protection afforded by AA Article 13 becomes available only in circumstances where the domestic support measures or export subsidies at issue have been found:
V. to be actionable subsidies, or to be otherwise countervailable, under Article 13(a)(i), 13(b)(i) or 13(c)(i); or
VI. in all other cases, to be inconsistent with the relevant specified provisions of GATT 1994 and/or the SCM Agreement;
and if the applicable conditions for the availability of that protection as specified in Article 13 are met.
13. Further, had the negotiators of the Agreement on Agriculture intended that AA Article 13 should mean that a Member would not be liable to a legal process of dispute, it is reasonable to assume that they would have said so. For example, the negotiators could have provided that the specified provisions of GATT and the SCM Agreement could not be "invoked", as they did in footnote 35 to Article 10 of the SCM Agreement in relation to non-actionable subsidy measures.
2 Black's Law Dictionary, Seventh Edition, Bryan A Garner, Editor in Chief, West Group, St Paul, Minn., 1999, page 593.
3 Black's Law Dictionary, page 593, defines "action" as "1. The process of doing something; conduct of behaviour. 2. A thing done; act. 3. A civil or criminal judicial proceeding."
4 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Ed. Lesley Brown, Volume 1, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1993, page 187.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-40
14. The Appellate Body has previously clarified that "the burden of proof rests upon the party, whether complaining or defending, who asserts the affirmative of a particular claim or defence"5, and that "[i]t is only reasonable that the burden of establishing [an affirmative defence] should rest on the party asserting it".6
15. Thus, in order to qualify for the protection afforded by AA Article 13, the United States must prove that the measures at issue conform fully to the applicable provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture. Further, in the case of the protection potentially afforded by Article 13(b)(ii), as well as by Article 13(b)(iii), the United States must prove that it has not granted, and does not grant, support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year.
B. THE MEANING OF AA ARTICLE 13(B)(II)7
16. In its First Written Submission, Brazil correctly highlights that there are a number of interpretative issues raised by the text of AA Article 13(b)(ii).8
(i) "Implementation period"
17. Under AA Article 1(f) and 1(i) read together, the "implementation period" is, for the purposes of Article 13, defined as the nine-year period commencing in 1995 according to the calendar, financial or marketing year specified in the Schedule relating to that Member.
(ii) "Domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of [AA] Article 6"
18. Australia supports Brazil's interpretation that the chapeau of AA Article 13(b) includes all non-"green box" domestic support measures, including product specific and non-product specific, de minimis and production-limiting domestic support, as well as investment subsidies and "diversification" support in developing countries.9
5 United States ­ Measure Affecting Imports of Woven Wool Shirts and Blouses from India, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS33/AB/R, page 14.
6 United States ­ Woven Wool Shirts and Blouses , WT/DS33/AB/R, page 16. 7 Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture provides as follows:
During the implementation period, notwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and [the SCM Agreement]:
... (b) domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement
including direct payments that conform to the requirements of paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, shall be:
... (ii) exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5
and 6 of the [SCM Agreement], provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year; and ... 8 First Submission of Brazil, paragraph 127. 9 First Submission of Brazil, paragraph 133.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-41
(iii) "Exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the [SCM Agreement]"
19. As noted in Section II.A above, if domestic support measures within the scope of the chapeau of AA Article 13(b) infringe the specified provisions, they are nevertheless "free or released from a duty or liability to which others are held"10 in relation to a proceeding11 "found[ed], buil[t] or construct[ed] on"12 those provisions as long as the conditions specified in Article 13 are met. Again, had the negotiators of the Agreement on Agriculture intended that a Member would not be liable to a legal process of dispute, it is reasonable to assume that they would have said so, for example, by providing that the specified provisions may not be "invoked" as in footnote 35 to Article 10 of the SCM Agreement in relation to non-actionable subsidy measures.
20. Australia notes, however, that only actions based on paragraph 1 of GATT Article XVI and Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement are covered under AA Article 13(b)(ii). Thus, for example, any actions based on paragraph 3 of GATT Article XVI or on SCM Article 3 would not benefit from the protection afforded by AA Article 13(b)(ii). In Australia's view, the limitation of protection under Article 13(b)(ii) to actions based on GATT Article XVI:1 and on SCM Articles 5 and 6 is consistent with the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture as expressed in the preamble to the Agreement, including to "[prevent] ... distortions in world agricultural markets" and "to [achieve] specific binding commitments in ... export competition". The attainment of those objectives would be too easily subverted if commitments in regard to export subsidies could be circumvented through the provision of domestic support.
(iv) "Such measures"
21. In Australia's view, the phrase "such measures" in AA Article 13(b)(ii) refers to the universe of non-"green box" measures covered by the chapeau of Article 13(b), consistent with the ordinary meaning of "such" as "of the kind, degree, or category previously specified or implied contextually".13
(v) "Grant support"
22. In Australia's view, having regard to the ordinary meaning of the words in their context and in light of the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture, "support" means the actual support, other than legitimate "green box" support, provided to an agricultural product. Thus, to "grant support" is to "agree to", "promise", "bestow", "allow", "give", "confer" or "transfer"14 non"green box" domestic support of the type referred to in the chapeau of AA Article 13(b), which calculation must include that portion of non-product specific support that benefits the specific commodity at issue.
(vi) "To a specific commodity"
23. Australia agrees with Brazil's interpretation15 that the ordinary meaning of this phrase, read in its context and in light of the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture, is support granted
10 Black's Law Dictionary, page 593. 11 Black's Law Dictionary, page 28, defines "action" as "1. The process of doing something; conduct of behaviour. 2. A thing done; act. 3. A civil or criminal judicial proceeding." 12 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Volume 1, page 187. 13 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Volume II, page 3129. 14 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Volume I, page 1131. 15 First Submission of Brazil, paragraph 136.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-42
to an individual agricultural commodity covered by AA Annex 1, such as upland cotton, whether through product specific, or non-product specific, support.
(vii) "That decided during the 1992 marketing year"
24. In Australia's view, this phrase, read in its context and in light of the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture, means the level of non-"green box" domestic support, including support provided through non-product specific non-"green box" domestic support measures, "decided" by a Member in the course of the 1992 marketing year to be provided to the benefit of a specific agricultural commodity in the future.
25. The use of the word "decided" in this context was deliberate.
26. Australia notes that the other operative provision of the Agreement on Agriculture in which the word "decided" is used is Article 13(b)(iii), which relates to non-violation nullification or impairment actions. Australia notes too that Article 13(b)(iii) contains precisely the same language ­ "provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year" ­ as used in Article 13(b)(ii). Thus, the meaning of the word "decided" in the context of Article 13(b)(ii) must be capable of having that same meaning in the context of non-violation nullification and impairment actions under Article 13(b)(iii).
(viii) Summary of the meaning of AA Article 13(b)(ii)
27. During the nine calendar, financial or marketing year period specified in a Member's Schedule period commencing in 1995, all non-"green box" domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of AA Article 6 are immune from the consequences of infringing GATT Article XVI:1 or Part V of the SCM Agreement, provided that the level of support to an individual commodity does not exceed the level of support for that commodity that was decided by the Member to be made available during the relevant 1992 marketing year.
III. "PRODUCTION FLEXIBILITY CONTRACT PAYMENTS" AND "DIRECT PAYMENTS" MAY NOT BE CLAIMED AS "GREEN BOX" MEASURES UNDER ANNEX 2 TO THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE
28. The United States has previously notified "Production Flexibility Contract (PFC) Payments"16 as AA Annex 2 "green box" measures.17 The United States has not made a domestic support notification since PFC payments were replaced by "Direct Payments" (DP)18 under the 2002 FSRI Act. Like Brazil19, Australia considers that neither of these payments programs may be claimed as "green box" measures for the reasons outlined below.
A. THE RELEVANT REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPHS 1 AND 6(B) OF AA ANNEX 2
29. AA Annex 2.1 provides that "[d]omestic support measures for which exemption from reduction commitments is claimed shall meet the fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production".

Brazil.

16 "Production Flexibility Contract Payments" are described at Section 2.6.1 of the First Submission of
17 See, for example, WTO document G/AG/N/USA/43 of 5 February 2003, page 8, Exhibit Bra-47. 18 "Direct Payments" are described at Section 2.6.2 of the First Submission of Brazil. 19 First Submission of Brazil, Sections 3.2.6 and 3.2.7.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-43
30. In addition, in relation to decoupled income support, AA Annex 2.6(b) provides that "[t]he amount of such payments in any given year shall not be related to, or based on, the type or volume of production (including livestock units) undertaken by the producer in any year after the base period".
(i) "No, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production"
31. In requiring that domestic support measures "shall meet the fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production", AA Annex 2.1 imposes a stringent standard. Annex 2.1 requires that such measures must, as a primary or essential condition, not "bias" or "unnaturally alter"20 trade or production. Alternatively, Annex 2.1 requires that, at most, such measures must have "extremely small; of a minimum amount, quantity or degree; very slight, negligible"21 effects on trade or production.
32. In Australia's view, this standard cannot be met if the domestic support measure at issue directly and specifically stimulates production and/or trade of a particular commodity, or if that support measure directly retards or halts the transfer of economic resources to other forms of economic activity, other than as specifically provided for under paragraphs 2-13 of AA Annex 2. If a domestic support measure results in a level of production and/or trade in a particular product or group of products higher than would otherwise be the case except as specifically provided for in Annex 2, the support measure cannot meet the standard established in Annex 2.1. Thus, if the direct effect of a support measure is that farmers keep producing, or keep producing a particular product, in circumstances that would be uneconomic but for the support measure, that measure cannot meet the requirements of Annex 2.1.
(ii) "The amount of such payments in any given year shall not be related to, or based on, the type or volume of production (including livestock units) undertaken by the producer in any year after the base period"
33. Paragraph 6 of AA Annex 2 is headed "decoupled income support". Paragraph 6(a) provides that "[e]ligibility for [decoupled income support] payments shall be determined by clearly defined criteria such as income, status as a producer or landowner, factor use or production level in a defined and fixed base period". Thus, consistent with the customary rules of interpretation codified at Article 31 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, "after the base period" in paragraph 6(b) means after the base period defined and fixed pursuant to paragraph 6(a).
34. Accordingly, the meaning of paragraph 6(b) of AA Annex 2 is clear. Once a base period has been defined and fixed pursuant to paragraph 6(a), decoupled income support payments may not be "connected"22 to or "found[ed], buil[t] or construct[ed] on"23 the type of production or the volume of production undertaken by a producer in a later period.
20 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Volume I, page 707. 21 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Volume I, page 1781. 22 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Volume II, page 2534. 23 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Volume 1, page 187.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-44

B. "PRODUCTION FLEXIBILITY CONTRACT (PFC) PAYMENTS" COULD NOT BE CLAIMED AS "GREEN BOX" PAYMENTS

(i) PFC payments had more than a negligible trade-distorting effect or effect on production, contrary to paragraph 1 of AA Annex 2$

35. Like Brazil, Australia considers that PFC payments directly stimulated, and stimulated by
more than a negligible amount, US production of, and trade in, upland cotton and Australia endorses Brazil's arguments in this respect.24

36. Further, the value of PFC payments rates as a proportion of the marketing year average farm price received by US upland cotton growers can be seen from data published by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and included in Table 1 below.

Table 1: The value of PFC payments as a percentage proportion of the marketing year average farm price received by US upland cotton growers

Marketing or Crop Year
1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/2000 2000/01 2001/02

Production flexibility Average farm contract (PFC) payment US¢/lb.26 rates US¢/lb.25

8.882 7.625 8.173 7.990 7.330 5.990

69.3 65.2 60.2 45.0 49.8 29.8

price

PFC payment rates as a proportion of the marketing year average farm price % 12.82 11.69 13.58 17.76 14.72 20.10

37. In addition, data published by the USDA for this period show that PFC payments constituted
26.37%, 36.5% and 22.90% of government payments by crop year for the 1999, 2000 and 2001 years respectively.27

38. PFC payments constituting such high proportions of the marketing year average farm prices and of domestic support measures must have a production and trade-distorting effect.

39. But this view is further confirmed when the marketing year average farm prices as shown in
Table 1 are considered against the fact that in 1997 the average of total economic costs for all US
cotton farms was approximately 73 cents per pound and operating costs averaged 38 cents per pound28. In such circumstances, economically rational producers should have begun to transfer
resources to other forms of economic activity. This did not happen. USDA data shows that the area
planted to cotton in the United States over this period increased, from 13.1 million acres in 1998 to 15.5 million acres in 2001.29 It is clear that many US producers of upland cotton could only have

24 First Submission of Brazil, Section 3.2.6.2. 25 Figures extracted from Agricultural Outlook, USDA, May 2000 and May 2002, Table 19, available
at http://www.ers.usda.gov/publications/agoutlook/may2000/ao271k.pdf and
http://www.ers.usda.gov/publications/agoutlook/May2002/ao291j.pdf respectively. 26 . Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton: Summary of 2002 Commodity Loan and Payment Program, USDA,
January 2003, page 5, Exhibit Bra-4. 27 Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton, page 6, Exhibit Bra-4. 28 Cotton: Background and Issues for Farm Legislation, USDA, July 2001, page 6, Exhibit Bra-46. 29 Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton, page 4, Exhibit Bra-4.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-45
remained viable over this period through subsidisation. Further, US exports of upland cotton increased from 4.1 million bales in 1998 to 10.6 million bales in 2001.30
40. In Australia's view, PFC payments during this period contributed directly to increased production and export levels and that they did so contrary to the express requirement of AA Annex 2.1 that the domestic support measures at issue not, or only negligibly, bias or unnaturally alter trade or production.
(ii) PFC payments were related to the type of production undertaken by the producer, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of AA Annex 2
41. By excluding fruits and vegetables (other than lentils, mung beans, and dry peas) from the planting flexibility otherwise available in respect of the contract acreage for which PFC payments could be made, s.118 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (the FAIR Act) related, or connected, PFC payments to the type of production undertaken by the producer in any year after the base period, contrary to the requirements of AA Annex 2.6(a).
C. "DIRECT PAYMENTS" FOR UPLAND COTTON MAY NOT BE CLAIMED AS "GREEN BOX" PAYMENTS
(i) Direct payments are likely to have more than a negligible trade-distorting effect or effect on production, contrary to paragraph 1 of AA Annex 2
42. Australia considers that direct payments for upland cotton are likely to stimulate, by more than a negligible amount, US production of, and trade in, upland cotton. The 2002 FSRI Act has established a direct payment rate for upland cotton of 6.67 cents per pound for each of the 2002 through 2007 crop years.
43. In addition to the arguments put forward by Brazil31, which Australia endorses, Australia considers that, so long as there is a reasonable possibility of continuing and significant longer-term volatility in the gross returns to producers (as measured by the marketing year average farm price), the assured availability of a direct payment for upland cotton at the rate of 6.67 cents per pound must be presumed to influence directly and specifically the decisions of growers to continue producing upland cotton, notwithstanding significant peaks and troughs in their income, rather than to transfer resources to other forms of economic activity.
(ii) Direct payments are related to the type of production undertaken by the producer, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture
44. Under s.1106(b) of the 2002 FSRI Act, fruits, vegetables (other than lentils, mung beans and dry peas) and wild rice are generally prohibited from being planted on base acreage unless the commodity, if planted, is destroyed before harvest except that trees and other perennial plants are prohibited. The implementing regulations make clear that, where it is determined that a producer made a good faith effort to comply with the "planting flexibility" provisions of s.1106 of the FSRI Act but that that producer's acreage report of fruits, vegetables or wild rice planted on a farm's base acreage is inaccurate and exceeds the allowed tolerance levels, the producer "shall accept a reduction in the direct and counter-cyclical payments for the farm ...".32
30 Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton, page 5, Exhibit Bra-4. 31 First Submission of Brazil, at Section 3.2.7.3. 32 7 CFR 1412.602(a)(2), Exhibit Bra-35.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-46
45. Thus, direct payments are related, or connected, to the type of production undertaken by the producer, contrary to paragraph 6(a) of AA Annex 2.
(iii) Direct payments are related to, or based on, the type or volume of production undertaken by the producer in a year after the base period, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture
46. Sections 1101 and 1102 of the 2002 FSRI Act allow producers to update their base acres and payment yields respectively for the purposes of receiving direct payments. As set out in Section III.A.ii above, only one base period is possible for the purposes of paragraph 6 of AA Annex 2. Once the base period has been defined and fixed, no further updating of either the type or volume of production is permissible if a support program is to comply with the conditions of paragraph 6 of Annex 2.
47. Under the 2002 FSRI Act, direct payments replaced PFC payments.33 Since the United States has claimed PFC payments as "green box" decoupled income support34, Australia considers that the United States has selected the base period that it used to determine base acres and payment yields under the 1996 FAIR Act as its defined and fixed base period for the purposes of paragraph 6 of AA Annex 2.
48. By providing for base acres and payment yields to be updated under the 2002 FSRI Act, the United States has related the amount of direct payments to, or based the amount of direct payments on, the type and volume of production undertaken by a producer in any year after the base period, contrary to paragraph 6(b) of AA Annex 2.
IV. "STEP 2" PAYMENTS ARE PROHIBITED SUBSIDIES CONTRARY TO ARTICLES 3.3 AND 8 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AND/OR ARTICLE 3 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT
49. Section 1207(a)(1) of the 2002 FSRI Act provides: "... the Secretary shall issue marketing certificates or cash payments ... to domestic users and exporters for documented purchases by domestic users and sales for export by exporters ...". Section 136 of the 1996 FAIR Act provided similarly that "... the Secretary shall issue marketing certificates or cash payments to domestic users and exporters ...".
50. The regulations to implement s.1207(a)(1) of the FSRI Act provide:
Eligible upland cotton must not be: ... (2) imported cotton ...35
Payments ... shall be made available to eligible domestic users and exporters who have entered into an Upland Cotton Domestic User/Export Agreement with CCC and who have complied with the terms and conditions in this subpart, the Upland Cotton Domestic User/Exporter Agreement and instructions issued by CCC.36
51. The standard Upland Cotton Domestic User/Export Agreement37 provides inter alia:
33 Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton, Exhibit Bra-4. 34 WTO document G/AG/N/USA/43, page 8, Exhibit Bra-47. 35 7 CFR 1427.103(c), Exhibit Bra-37. 36 7 CFR 1427.105(a), Exhibit Bra-37. 37 Exhibit Bra-65.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-47
Upland cotton eligible for payment is cotton consumed by the Domestic User in the United States ... (Section B-2)
Eligible upland cotton will be considered consumed by the Domestic User on the date the bagging and ties are removed from the bale in the normal opening area, immediately prior to use, ... (Section B-3(b))
Upland cotton eligible for payment is cotton which is shipped by an eligible Exporter ... (Section C-2)
Eligible upland cotton will be considered exported based on the on-board-vessel-date as shown on the bill of lading. (Section C-3)
52. A "Step 2" payment is unquestionably a subsidy within the meaning of the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement. A "Step 2" payment involves a direct transfer of economic resources (cash or the equivalent value in ownership of goods) to a domestic user or exporter of US upland cotton.
53. The Article 21.5 stage of United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations" (US ­ FSC (21.5)) involved provisions under which more favourable tax treatment was available in either of two, mutually exclusive, situations. The availability of the favourable tax treatment was found to be a prohibited export subsidy in one of those situations notwithstanding that the favourable tax treatment was freely available in both situations, subject to the prescribed conditions for entitlement being met. The Appellate Body said:
In our view, it is ... necessary, under Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, to examine separately the conditions pertaining to the grant of the subsidy in the two different situations addressed by the measure. We find it difficult to accept the United States' arguments that such examination involves an `artificial bifurcation" of the measure. The measure itself identifies the two situations which must be different since the very same property cannot be produced both within and outside the United States.38
54. The availability of "Step 2" payments under s.1207(a)(1) is analogous to the situation examined in US ­ FSC (21.5). "Step 2" payments are available only to exporters ("Step 2" export payments) or to domestic users ("Step 2" domestic payments). Section 1207(a)(1) "identifies the two situations which must be different since the very same property cannot be" exported or used within the United States.
A. "STEP 2" EXPORT PAYMENTS ARE PROHIBITED EXPORT SUBSIDIES CONTRARY TO ARTICLES 3.3 AND 8 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AND ARTICLE 3.1(A) AND 3.2 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT
(i) "Step 2" export payments are subsidies contingent upon export performance
55. For "Step 2" export payments, the export contingency is expressly provided for in s.1207(a)(1), which provides "... the Secretary shall issue marketing certificates or cash payments ... to exporters for ... sales for export by exporters ..." and in the implementing regulations.
38 United States ­ Tax Treatment of "Foreign Sales Corporations", Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by the European Communities, WT/DS108/AB/RW, paragraph 115.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-48
56 "Step 2" export payments are only payable once US-produced upland cotton has been placed aboard a vessel: they are "conditional" upon the cotton actually being exported. Thus, "Step 2" export payments are contingent upon export performance.
(ii) "Step 2" export payments are export subsidies contrary to Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture
57. "Step 2" export payments are a type of export subsidy expressly foreseen by AA Article 9.1(a) and subject to budgetary outlay and quantity reduction commitments thereunder. They are a direct subsidy, including through payment-in-kind, to an industry, to producers of an agricultural product, or to a cooperative or other association of such producers, contingent on export performance.
58. The United States has not specified any reduction commitments in its Schedule for upland cotton.
59. Consequently, by providing "Step 2" export payments under both the 1996 FAIR Act and the 2002 FSI Act, the United States has provided export subsidies contrary to its obligations:
VII. pursuant to AA Article 3.3 not to provide export subsidies in respect of any agricultural product not specified in Section II of Part IV of its Schedule; and
VIII. pursuant to its obligation pursuant to Article 8 not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement and with the commitments as specified in its Schedule.
(iii) "Step 2" export payments are prohibited export subsidies contrary to SCM Article 3
60. Because "Step 2" export payments are export subsidies that do not conform fully to the provisions of Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture, Article 13(c)(ii) of that Agreement is not applicable and the payments are not protected from the operation of SCM Article 3.
61. A "Step 2" export payment is a subsidy within the meaning of SCM Article 1.1(a)(1)(i) for the purposes of SCM Article 3.1: it involves a direct transfer of economic resources to a domestic user or exporter of US upland cotton, and confers a benefit on the recipient by making US upland cotton commercially competitive.
62. Further, a "Step 2" export payment is contingent upon export performance: it is only payable once the upland cotton has been placed aboard a vessel for export. The Appellate Body has said:
We see no reason, and none has been pointed out to us, to read the requirement of "contingent upon export performance" in the Agreement on Agriculture differently from the same requirement imposed by the SCM Agreement.39
63. As a consequence, because "Step 2" export payments mandated by s.1207(a)(1) of the FSRI Act are export subsidies that are not being made "as provided in the Agreement on Agriculture", they are prohibited export subsidies pursuant to SCM Article 3.1(a), and the United States is acting contrary to its obligations under SCM Article 3.2 by granting or maintaining such subsidies pursuant to s.1207(a)(1) of the FSRI Act. Consistent with the provisions of SCM Article 4.7, Australia
39 United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations", Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS108/AB/R, paragraph 141.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-49
endorses Brazil's request40 that the Panel recommend that the United States withdraw the "Step 2" export payments without delay.
B. "STEP 2" DOMESTIC PAYMENTS ARE LOCAL CONTENT SUBSIDIES CONTRARY TO ARTICLE 3 OF THE SCM AGREEMENT
64. For "Step 2" domestic payments, the local content requirement is expressly provided for in s.1207(a)(1), which provides "... the Secretary shall issue marketing certificates or cash payments ... to domestic users ... for documented purchases by domestic users ..." and in the implementing regulations, which provide that "eligible cotton must not be ... imported cotton".
65. "Step 2" domestic payments are only payable once US-produced upland cotton is consumed by a domestic user. "Step 2" domestic payments are contingent upon the use of domestic over imported goods.
66. Thus, s.1207(a)(1) of the FSRI Act mandates the payment of subsidies which are prohibited pursuant to SCM Article 3.1(b), and the United States is acting contrary to its obligations under SCM Article 3.2 by granting or maintaining such subsidies. Consistent with the provisions of SCM Article 4.7, Australia endorses Brazil's request41 that the Panel recommend that the United States withdraw the "Step 2" domestic payments without delay.
C. THE UNITED STATES CANNOT AVOID ITS OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO PROHIBITED SUBSIDIES BY DESIGNING A MEASURE UNDER WHICH ENTITLEMENTS ARE OSTENSIBLY AVAILABLE IN MULTIPLE CIRCUMSTANCES
67. In Australia's view, the United States cannot avoid its obligations relating to prohibited subsidies under the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement by designing a measure under which entitlements are ostensibly available in multiple circumstances. As the Appellate Body concluded in US ­ FSC (21.5):
Our conclusion that the ETI measure grants subsidies that are export contingent in the first set of circumstances is not affected by the fact that the subsidy can also be obtained in the second set of circumstances. The fact that the subsidies granted in the second set of circumstances might not be export contingent does not dissolve the export contingency arising in the first set of circumstances.42
68. Moreover, in the circumstances of the present case, it would be a manifestly inequitable outcome if a WTO Member was able to avoid its obligations relating to prohibited subsidies under the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement on the basis that there is a second set of circumstances in which a subsidy can be paid, when the second set of circumstances is itself a prohibited subsidy.
69. Australia considers that, through the "Step 2" payments mandated by s.1207(a)(1) of the FSRI Act, the United States is paying: (1) export subsidies contrary to its obligations pursuant to AA Articles 3.3 and 8 and SCM Article 3.1(a) and 3.2; and (2) local content subsidies contrary to its obligations pursuant to SCM Article 3.1(b) and 3.2.
40 First Submission of Brazil, paragraph 251. 41 First Submission of Brazil, paragraph 341. 42 United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations", Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by the European Communities, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS108/AB/RW, paragraph 119

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-50
V. CONCLUSION
70. This dispute raises fundamental issues concerning the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture, and the balance of rights and obligations accepted by all Members under the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization. The outcome of this dispute will determine whether, in fact, Members accepted any meaningful obligations in relation to domestic support measures pursuant to the Agreement on Agriculture.
71. In Australia's view, Brazil has provided prima facie evidence that the United States has not acted consistently with its obligations in relation to domestic support measures and export subsidies provided to upland cotton under the Agreement on Agriculture. Further, Australia considers that the "Step 2" payments for domestic users and exporters of upland cotton are clearly subsidies prohibited by the SCM Agreement, and endorses Brazil's request that these be withdrawn without delay.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-51
ANNEX B-5
THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION OF BENIN
15 July 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................. 51
II. BENIN AND US COTTON SUBSIDIES ........................................................................ 52
III. WTO LEGAL ISSUES ..................................................................................................... 54
IV. CONCLUSIONS................................................................................................................ 57
I. INTRODUCTION
1. The issue in this dispute is of critical importance for Benin, West Africa, and many developing countries: whether WTO Members must respect agreed disciplines for the provision of agricultural subsidies.
2. The right to grant agricultural subsidies is by no means absolute. During the Uruguay Round, the drafters of the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement established a number of preconditions for the provision of WTO-consistent subsidies. These preconditions, including those embodied in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture - the so-called "peace clause" - were part of the overall balance of rights and obligations accepted by the United States and other participants at the conclusion of the Round.
3. Benin, upon its accession to the WTO in 1996, accepted the Uruguay Round package. In doing so, it expected that the subsidies provided by its trading partners, including the United States, would remain within these agreed parameters.
4. However, contrary to its WTO obligations, the United States has provided huge subsidies for the production, use and export of US cotton. These WTO-inconsistent subsidies have been highly damaging to Benin.
5. Benin supports the positions advanced by Brazil in this dispute, particularly those set out in Brazil's first submission of June 24. Benin welcomes the opportunity to provide its views to the Panel, divided into two headings:
(a) Benin and US cotton subsidies, which provides appropriate additional context to the issues facing the Panel; and
(b) WTO legal issues.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-52
II. BENIN AND US COTTON SUBSIDIES
6. Benin is a least-developed country, with a GNP per capita of US $380. Of the 175 countries listed in the 2003 Human Development Index of the United Nations Development Programme, Benin is ranked 159th.1
7. Cotton plays a crucial role in the development of Benin. It is the most important cash crop in the national economy. Cotton accounts for 90 per cent of agricultural exports, and has provided around 75 per cent of the country's export earnings over the past four years. Benin is the 12th largest exporter of cotton in the world.
8. Cotton generates 25 per cent of the country's revenues. A third of all households in Benin depend on the cultivation of cotton, and a fifth of wage-earning workers are employed in the cotton sector. Overall, about a million people in Benin ­ out of a population of six million ­ are dependant on cotton, or cotton-related activities.
9. The cotton sector in Benin, which is mainly in the rural regions, has suffered considerable hardship. As the International Monetary Fund noted in a report earlier this year, "poverty is prevalent in cotton-producing areas".2 Cotton growers are concentrated in the north of the country, a more arid region where the potential for any agricultural diversification is lower, and where opportunities for non-farm employment are scare.3
10. Despite these problems of persistent poverty, the cotton sector in Benin and the region
remains highly competitive by world standards. The cost of producing cotton in West Africa is 50 per cent lower than comparable costs in the United States.4
11. As recent report noted: "West Africa is one of the world's most efficient cotton producing regions. The IMF estimates that the sector can operate profitably at world price levels of around 50 cents/lb. Few producers in the US could compete at this price. Indeed, the USDA estimates average production costs at 75 cents/lb."5
12. Moreover, the sector has also undergone major structural reforms in recent years to increase efficiency. The IMF reported that: "Benin has moved away from the integrated monopoly that characterized the organization of cotton production and marketing of seed cotton in western and central Africa. Benin's reform process is among the most advanced in the region."6
13. Unfortunately, the benefits of such reforms have been completely negated by massive US subsidies. As noted by Brazil in its First Submission, total upland cotton subsidies amounted to
1 Human Development Report 2003, United Nations Development Programme, http://www.undp.org/hdr2003.
2 According to the IMF, "The cotton zone in central Benin (the Zou and Borgou) presents one of the highest incidences of poverty, while the deepest poverty (as measured by the poverty gap index) can be found in the north (cotton-producing area in northern Borgou). International Monetary Fund, Country Report No. 03/120. Benin: Fourth Review Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility ­ Staff Report. April 2003. Page 28.
3 Impact of Global Cotton Markets on Rural Poverty in Benin. Nicholas Minot and Lisa Daniels. International Food Policy Research Institute, Washington, D.C. November 2002. Page 19.
4 See Louis Goreux, "Préjudices causés par les subventions aux filières cotonnières de l'AOC." March 2003. Cited in TN/AG/GEN/4, 16 May 2003.
5 Northern Agricultural Policies and World Poverty: Will the Doha `Development Round' Make a Difference? Kevin Watkins, Head of Research, Oxfam Great Britain. Paper presented to the Annual World Bank Conference of Development Economics. 15-16 May, 2003. Page 65.
6 IMF Country Report, Op. Cit., page 23

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-53
US$12.9 billion during the 1999-2002 marketing years.7 The International Cotton Advisory Cotton estimates that US subsidies are equivalent to 24 cents per pound of cotton produced.8
14. Subsidies of this magnitude have sharply increased supplies on the international market, thereby producing a collapse in global cotton prices. From January, 2001 to May, 2002, world cotton prices fell by nearly 40 per cent, from 64 cents to about 39 cents per pound, the lowest level since the 1930s. Although prices have improved since last year, the world market for cotton remains characterized by oversupply as a result of US subsidies. This has extremely serious consequences for Benin and other West African countries.
15. Benin is highly vulnerable to changes in the world price of this cash crop. The International Food Policy Research Institute has estimated that a 40 per cent reduction in farm-level prices of cotton results in an increase in rural poverty in Benin of 8 per cent in the short term, and 6-7 per cent in the long term. An increase of 8 per cent is equivalent to pushing an additional 334,000 people below the poverty line.9 This, in turn, has produced a deterioration in the social conditions of many rural communities, including conditions pertaining to housing, schooling, sanitation, nutrition and other basic needs.
16. The overwhelming magnitude of US cotton subsidies, and the impossibility of Benin competing with them, are well illustrated in the table below.10 As the table indicates, the subsidies paid by the United States to 25,000 US cotton farmers exceeds the gross national income of Benin. These subsidies also exceed the gross national income of Burkina Faso, the Central African Republic, Chad, Mali and Togo.

7 First Submission of Brazil, paragraph 3. 8 Minot and Daniels, op. cit, page 1. 9 Minot and Daniels, op cit., page 50. 10 This table is from Cultivating Poverty:

The Impact of US Cotton Subsidies on Africa.

Oxfam

Briefing Paper 30. 27 September 2002. Brazil has filed the full Oxfam report as exhibit Bra­15.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-54
17. Thus, when cotton from Benin enters world markets, it must compete against such massively subsidized US cotton. 18. Oxfam has estimated that US subsidies have caused Benin to lose US $33 million in foreign exchange earnings, equivalent to 9 per cent of the country's export earnings.11 19. Indeed, the shock of such subsidies, and their attendant effect on prices, threatens the very existence of the cotton sector in Benin. It has created a genuine economic crisis in the sector, and it is possible that the cotton sector in Benin could simply disappear during the 2003/04 marketing year. This would have catastrophic effects both for the national economy, and for the social cohesion of the country in regions where cotton production predominates. This also poses a significant threat to Benin's efforts at poverty alleviation in economically precarious rural areas. 20. With these preliminary comments as additional context, Benin now comments briefly on some of the legal issues raised in Brazil's submission. III. WTO LEGAL ISSUES 21. Benin agrees with Brazil that the United States cannot successfully invoke the peace clause to bar the actionable subsidy claims that have been advanced in this dispute.
11 Ibid., page 17.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-55
22. The peace clause is an affirmative defence. The United States, not Brazil, must bear of burden of demonstrating that US domestic support and export subsidies comply with the requirements of Article 13.
23. Affirmative defences, as the Appellate Body made clear in United States ­ Wool Shirts and Blouses, are "limited exceptions from obligations under certain other provisions", not "positive rules establishing obligations in themselves". In the view of the Appellate Body, "[i]t is only reasonable that the burden of establishing such a defence should rest on the party asserting it".
24. The language in Article 13 shows the clear intent of the drafters that the Member seeking to invoke the peace clause must bear the burden of demonstrating full compliance with all of the preconditions set out in this provision.
25. In addition to the arguments advanced by Brazil, Benin would note that the use of the proviso "provided that" in Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) also shows the intent of the drafters to shift the burden to the Member seeking to invoke this exception. In both subsections, the exemption from actions has been qualified by the addition of this proviso:
(b) domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement including direct payments that conform to the requirements of paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, shall be:
(ii) exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year; and
(iii) exempt from actions based on non-violation nullification or impairment of the benefits of tariff concessions accruing to another Member under Article II of GATT 1994, in the sense of paragraph 1(b) of Article XXIII of GATT 1994, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year..." [emphasis added]
26. A similar proviso can be found in GATT Article XVIII:11, dealing with the elimination of restrictions imposed for balance of payments purposes:
"[T] he contracting party concerned... shall progressively relax any restrictions applied under this Section as conditions improve, maintaining them only to the extent necessary under the terms of paragraph 9 of this Article and shall eliminate them when conditions no longer justify such maintenance; Provided that no contracting party shall be required to withdraw or modify restrictions on the ground that a change in its development policy would render unnecessary the restrictions which it is applying under this Section." [emphasis added] 27. In construing GATT Article XVIII:11, the Appellate Body made clear in the Quantitative Restrictions case that the burden of proof lay clearly on the responding party ­ in that case, India ­ seeking to invoke the proviso:
"The proviso precludes a Member, which is challenging the consistency of balanceof payments restrictions, from arguing that such restrictions would be unnecessary if the developing country Member maintaining them were to change its development policy. In effect, the proviso places an obligation on Members not to require a developing country Member imposing balance-of payments restrictions to change its development policy....

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-56
[W]e do not exclude the possibility that a situation might arise in which an assertion regarding development policy does involve a burden of proof issue. Assuming that the complaining party has successfully established a prima facie case of inconsistency with Article XVIII:11 and the Ad Note, the responding party may, in its defence, either rebut the evidence adduced in support of the inconsistency or invoke the proviso. In the latter case, it would have to demonstrate that the complaining party violated its obligation not to require the responding party to change its development policy. This is an assertion with respect to which the responding party must bear the burden of proof. We, therefore, agree with the Panel that the burden of proof with respect to the proviso is on India."12
28. Although the use of the proviso "provided that" is not determinative, it does provide strong textual support for the proposition that the drafters of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, like the drafters of GATT Article XVIII:11, intended the burden of proof to shift to the party seeking to invoke the proviso.
29. Indeed, the situation in the Cotton dispute is very similar to that examined by the Appellate Body in the Quantitative Restrictions case. The United States is seeking to invoke the "provided that" proviso set out in Article 13. This is, as the Appellate Body reasoned, "an assertion with respect to which the responding party must bear the burden of proof". Therefore, as with India in Quantitative Restrictions, the burden of proof with respect to the proviso is on the United States.
30. Article 13, construed as a whole, also supports the position that if the United States seeks entry into the "safe harbour", it bears the burden of demonstrating that it has met the preconditions necessary to justify entry.
31. For example, the chapeau to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) all provide that the measures or subsidies "must conform fully" with the applicable disciplines. Domestic support measures or export subsidies that do not "conform fully" to the specified provisions cannot benefit from the peace clause. Since the United States claims that it "conforms fully" to the relevant provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture, the SCM Agreement, and the GATT 1994, and it is up to the United States to provide sufficient evidence in support of this defence.
32. Thus, as argued above, the burden falls on the United States if it wishes successfully to invoke the affirmative defence of Article 13.
33. However, even if the burden rested on Brazil ­ which it does not ­ Brazil has amply demonstrated in its First Submission that the United States is providing domestic support and export subsidies far in excess of WTO commitments.
34. For example, as Brazil demonstrated in its submission, US non-"green box" domestic support to upland cotton in the 1992 marketing year was $1,994.4 million. By 2001, US non-"green box" domestic support increased to $4,093 million. Thus, the defence that may have been conditionally available to the United States ­ had it "conformed fully" to the requirements of Article 13 ­ is unavailable.
35. Brazil presents compelling evidence on the WTO-inconsistency of all of the impugned US measures, encompassing both domestic support payments and export payments. Benin agrees with Brazil that the US measures violate the Agreement on Agriculture, the SCM Agreement, and the GATT 1994.
12 Appellate Body Report, India ­ Quantitative Restrictions on Imports of Agricultural, Textile an Industrial Products, WT/DS90/AB/R, paragraph 134 and 136.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-57
36. The United States, in its submission of July 11, has done nothing to rebut the presumption of WTO-inconsistency established by Brazil.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
37. As noted above, US cotton subsidies exceed the Gross National Income of Benin. Benin has few options available to it to respond to subsidies of such magnitude. The resulting impact on the economy of the country has been devastating.
38. Benin is not seeking any special and differential treatment in this dispute. It simply asks the Panel to ensure that the relevant provisions of the WTO Agreements, including Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, are interpreted and applied as negotiated. The United States must respect the disciplines that it, and other WTO Members, agreed to at the end of the Uruguay Round.
39. Benin is grateful for the opportunity to present its views to the Panel in this extremely important dispute. Benin notes that further submissions are intended, and reserves the right to provide additional views to the Panel (including in response to the US First Written Submission of 11 July) as necessary and appropriate, at a later stage.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-58
ANNEX B-6
THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION OF CANADA
15 July 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS I. INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................59 II. CLAIMS REGARDING US DOMESTIC AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
MEASURES.............................................................................................................................59 A. PFC PAYMENTS AND DIRECT PAYMENTS DO NOT QUALIFY AS EXEMPT DECOUPLED
INCOME SUPPORT UNDER THE AGRICULTURE AGREEMENT......................................................59 1. Decoupled income support under Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement is
exempt from action under the SCM Agreement and GATT 1994......................................60 2. Decoupled income support must not be linked to the type of commodity
produced in any year after the base period ..........................................................................61 3. PFC payments and direct payments do not conform to Annex 2 of the
Agriculture Agreement because the amount of these payments is linked to the type of commodity produced after the base period..............................................................62 III. CLAIMS REGARDING US EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMMES .....................................................................................................................64 A. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES MAY PROVIDE "EXPORT SUBSIDIES" UNDER THE AGRICULTURE AGREEMENT......................................................................................................65 B. US EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES MAY GRANT EXPORT SUBSIDIES UNDER ARTICLE 1(E) OF THE AGRICULTURE AGREEMENT AND ARTICLE 3.1(A) OF THE SCM AGREEMENT .....................................................................................................................66 IV. CONCLUSION........................................................................................................................70

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-59
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Canada has a systemic interest in the correct interpretation of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture (Agriculture Agreement), as well as the export subsidy provisions of both the Agriculture Agreement and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM Agreement).
2. In its first written submission, Brazil makes a number of claims. Canada's comments relate to the claims of Brazil in respect of the following:
IX. Whether US production flexibility contract payments (PFC payments) made under the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 and US direct payments made under the US Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 FSRI Act) satisfy the policy-specific criteria for decoupled income support in Annex 2, paragraph 6(b) of the Agriculture Agreement; and
X. Whether US GSM-102, GSM-103, and the SCG export credit guarantee programmes provide export subsidies in violation of Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement.
II. CLAIMS REGARDING US DOMESTIC AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT MEASURES
3. Among the claims brought by Brazil against the United States in this dispute are those concerning the conformity of US domestic subsidies with US obligations under Part III of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (GATT 1994).
4. On 20 June 2003, the Panel preliminarily ruled that it would defer consideration of Brazil's claims under Part III of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of GATT 1994 until after it had expressed views on whether the US measures satisfy the conditions of Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement (the so-called "Peace Clause"). Accordingly, Brazil argues in its first written submission that PFC payments and direct payments (US measures involving direct payments to US agricultural producers) are not exempt from action under the Peace Clause because they do not conform fully to the criteria in Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement.1 The United States argues in response that PFC payments are not within the Panel's terms of reference because they were no longer in effect at the time of the consultation or panel requests.2 Regarding direct payments, the United States argues that these measures are exempt from action because they conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2 and are therefore covered by Article 13(a)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement.3
5. Canada provides views in this submission on the conformity of PFC payments and direct payments with criteria in Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement.
A. PFC PAYMENTS AND DIRECT PAYMENTS DO NOT QUALIFY AS EXEMPT DECOUPLED INCOME SUPPORT UNDER THE AGRICULTURE AGREEMENT
6. It is Canada's view that PFC payments and direct payments do not fully conform to the provisions of paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement for the reasons set out below.
1 First Written Submission of Brazil, 24 June 2003 , at paras. 153 and 173 [hereinafter Brazil First Written Submission].
2 First Written Submission of the United States, 11 July 2003, at paras. 190 and 207-211 [hereinafter "US First Written Submission"].
3 US First Written Submission, paras. 64-68.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-60
1. Decoupled income support under Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement is exempt from action under the SCM Agreement and GATT 1994
7. Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement is relevant to actionable subsidy cases under the SCM Agreement and GATT 1994 because the Agriculture Agreement provides for certain conditional exemptions. In this section, Canada sets out the relationship between these three agreements in this respect.
8. Action under Part III of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of GATT 1994 depends on a determination of the existence of a "subsidy".4 Article 1.1 of the SCM Agreement sets out the definition of a subsidy:
1.1 For the purpose of this Agreement, a subsidy shall be deemed to exist if:
(a)(1) there is a financial contribution by a government or any public body within the territory of a Member...
or
(a)(2) here is any form of income or price support in the sense of Article XVI of GATT 1994;
and
(b) a benefit is thereby conferred.
9. Article 1.2 provides that a subsidy is actionable under Part III of the Agreement if it is "specific" in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.
10. Article 5 begins Part III of the SCM Agreement on actionable subsidies by providing that "[n]o Member should cause, through the use of any subsidy referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 1, adverse effects to the interests of other Members...". Articles 5 and 6 describe "adverse effects" and set out the basis for determining whether they exist. Article 7 sets out the available remedies where adverse effects do exist. All of these provisions are subject to Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement.5
11. Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement conditionally exempts domestic support measures from actionable subsidy complaints. It provides in relevant part:
4 See United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations", Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS108/AB/R, adopted March 20, 2000 at para. 93 [hereinafter US FSC AB Report]:
Article 1.1 sets forth the general definition of the term "subsidy" which applies "for the purpose of this Agreement". This definition, therefore, applies wherever the word "subsidy" occurs throughout the SCM Agreement and conditions the application of the provisions of that Agreement regarding prohibited subsidies in Part II, actionable subsidies in Part III, non-actionable subsidies in Part IV and countervailing measures in Part V [emphasis in original]. 5 Article 5 ends with: "This Article does not apply to subsidies maintained on agricultural products as provided in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture". Article 6.9 contains identical language. Article 7.1 begins: "Except as provided in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, ...".
Regarding action under Article XVI of GATT 1994, in addition to the provisions in Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement, Article 21.1 states: "The provisions of GATT 1994... shall apply subject to the provisions of this Agreement."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-61
During the implementation period, notwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (referred to in this Article as the "Subsidies Agreement"):
(a) domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2 to this Agreement shall be:
...
(ii) exempt from actions based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 and Part III of the Subsidies Agreement;
...
(b) domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement including direct payments that conform to the requirements of paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, shall be:
...
(ii) exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year...
12. Accordingly, domestic subsidies are exempt from application of the provisions in Part III of the Subsidies Agreement and of Article XVI of GATT 1994 if they conform to Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement. Domestic subsidies that do not conform to Annex 2 are exempt if such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year.
2. Decoupled income support must not be linked to the type of commodity produced in any year after the base period
13. To determine whether a measure is exempt under Article 13(a) of the Agriculture Agreement, it must be assessed under the criteria of Annex 2. Canada sets out the relevant Annex 2 provisions.
14. Annex 2 is the basis for the conditional exemption of domestic subsidies, under Article 13(a) of the Agriculture Agreement, from the application of Part III of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of GATT 1994. Annex 2 also conditionally (and principally) exempts domestic support measures from reduction commitments pursuant to exceptions under Articles 3.2, 6 and 7 of the Agreement. Paragraph 1 of Annex 2 reads as follows:
1. Domestic support measures for which exemption from the reduction commitments is claimed shall meet the fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, tradedistorting effects or effects on production. Accordingly, all measures for which exemption is claimed shall conform to the following basic criteria:
(a) the support in question shall be provided through a publicly-funded government programme (including government revenue foregone) not involving transfers from consumers; and,
(b) the support in question shall not have the effect of providing price support to producers;
plus policy-specific criteria and conditions as set out below.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-62
15. The policy-specific criteria are for each of the following measures: general services (paragraph 2); public stockholding (paragraph 3); domestic food aid (paragraph 4); and direct payments to producers (paragraphs 5-13).
16. Paragraph 5 of Annex 2 provides that direct payments to producers are exempt only if they meet the basic criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex 2 and the "specific criteria applying to individual types of direct payment as set out in paragraphs 6 through 13...". Paragraph 5 further specifies that, to be exempt, any measure that does not constitute a type of direct payment covered by paragraphs 613 must conform to the criteria in paragraph 6(b) through (e) as well as the basic criteria listed in paragraph 1.
17. Paragraph 6 of Annex 2 reads:
6. Decoupled income support
(a) Eligibility for such payments shall be determined by clearly-defined criteria such as income, status as a producer or landowner, factor use or production level in a defined and fixed base period.
(b) The amount of such payments in any given year shall not be related to, or based on, the type or volume of production (including livestock units) undertaken by the producer in any year after the base period.
(c) The amount of such payments in any given year shall not be related to, or based on, the prices, domestic or international, applying to any production undertaken in any year after the base period.
(d) The amount of such payments in any given year shall not be related to, or based on, the factors of production employed in any year after the base period.
(e) No production shall be required in order to receive such payments.
18. For direct payments to qualify as decoupled income support, paragraph 6(b) requires that the amount of the payments not be "related to, or based on, the type... of production... undertaken by the producer in any year after the base period." The ordinary meaning of "production" is "something which is produced by an action, process, etc.; a product".6 Nothing in the context or in the object and purpose of this subparagraph, of Annex 2, or of the Agriculture Agreement as a whole detracts from this ordinary meaning. Accordingly, under paragraph 6(b), the amount of the payment must not be linked to the kind of product that is produced.
3. PFC payments and direct payments do not conform to Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement because the amount of these payments is linked to the type of commodity produced after the base period
19. Based on the evidence and arguments presented in the submissions of the disputing parties at this stage of the proceedings, it is Canada's assessment that the amount of PFC payments and direct payments are based on the type of commodity produced after the base period. Were the Panel to accept the evidence submitted by Brazil, it would find that PFC payments and direct payments are inconsistent with paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement.
6 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, p. 2367 [Exhibit CDA-1.].

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-63
20. Brazil asserts that under US law implementing PFC payments, the amount of such payments "could fluctuate from 100 percent of the PFC payments if [a producer] did not grow any fruits and vegetables, to zero percent in case such prohibited products are grown" or "[to] a reduced and prorated decrease based on acreage and/or value of the fruit or vegetable crop grown on PFC contract acres."7 According to Brazil, US implementing law also provides that "PFC payments are reduced for each acre of wild rice that is produced." 8 Regarding direct payments, Brazil argues that under US implementing law, current fruit, vegetable, or wild rice production affects the amount of the direct payment in the same manner as such production affects the amount of the PFC payment.
9
21. The United States describes direct payments under the 2002 FSRI Act as direct payments "to persons (farmers and landowners) with farm acres that formerly produced any of a series of commodities during the base period."10 The United States claims that these payments constitute "decoupled income support" under Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement because they: (1) are provided through a publicly-funded government programme not involving transfers from consumers; (2) do not have the effect of providing price support to producers; and (3) conform to the five policyspecific criteria and conditions set out in paragraph 6.11 The United States claims in particular that the direct payments are "decoupled from production" because the amount of the payments is not based on the type of production undertaken after the base period, in conformity with paragraph 6(b). In this respect, the United States argues:
Not only is there no requirement that a direct payment recipient engage in any particular type or volume of production, a recipient need not engage in any current agricultural production in order to receive the direct payment.12 [emphasis in original]
22. The United States does not describe or assess PFC payments, given its request for a preliminary ruling by the Panel that such payments are not within its terms of reference.13
23. Canada's assessment of the facts and arguments presented so far in this case is that the United States has incorrectly classified PFC payments as decoupled income support,14 and that US direct payments do not qualify as such support.15 Nowhere in its submission does the United States address the evidence of implementing legislation and regulations regarding either measure. Its argument that direct payment recipients are not required to engage in any particular type or volume of production (or any current agricultural production at all) to receive direct payments fails to address the evidence indicating that the amount of the payment may change based on whether base acreage is used for current production of fruits, vegetables, or wild rice. For both measures, the evidence indicates that the amount of the payment is based on the type of production: payments are full, nil, or some amount in between where base acres are used for current fruit, vegetable or wild rice production.
7 Brazil First Written Submission, para. 160. 8 Ibid., para. 161. 9 Brazil First Written Submission, para 174. 10 US First Written Submission, para. 57. 11 Ibid., paras. 64-68. 12 Ibid., para. 67. 13 Ibid., para. 211. 14 Brazil First Written Submission, para. 153. 15 Ibid., paras. 175 and 198.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-64
III. CLAIMS REGARDING US EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMMES
24. Brazil asserts that the US GSM-102, GSM-103, and SCG programmes provide export subsidies with respect to upland cotton and other agricultural commodities in violation of Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement.16 According to Brazil, the United States violates Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement because these programmes:
XI. provide export subsidies under item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies in Annex I of the SCM Agreement;17 and
XII. provide "subsidies" that are "contingent upon export performance" under Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of that Agreement.18
25. As a result, Brazil argues, these measures do not fully conform to the provisions of Part V of the Agriculture Agreement and the Peace Clause, therefore, does not exempt them from actions based on Article 3 of the SCM Agreement.19 Brazil also argues that these programmes provide prohibited export subsidies within the meaning of Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement and requests the Panel to recommend to the DSB that the measures be withdrawn without delay under Article 4.7.20
26. The United States argues in response that its export credit guarantee programmes are not export subsidies subject to Article 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement because Article 10.2 permits export credit guarantee practices "to continue, unaffected by export subsidy disciplines otherwise negotiated and reflected in the text of the Agreement".21 The United States asserts that these programmes do not provide prohibited export subsidies under Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement because export credit guarantees are carved out from export subsidy commitments by virtue of Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement and any application of Article 3 of the SCM Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Agriculture Agreement.22 Finally, according to the United States, its measures do not satisfy the standard in item (j) of Annex I of the SCM Agreement and are not, for that reason alone, export subsidies under Article 3.1(a).23
27. The United States also requests the Panel to rule preliminarily that Brazil's arguments in connection with all commodities other than upland cotton are not properly before the Panel, and limits its arguments to upland cotton accordingly.24
28. In this submission, Canada limits its views to whether the United States has violated Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement by providing export subsidies in the form of export credit guarantees resulting in the circumvention of US export subsidy commitments with respect to upland cotton. Canada notes that this aspect of Brazil's claim is both independent and determinative of the applicability in this dispute of the Peace Clause under Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement. That is, a violation of Articles 8 and 10.1 in this case would itself form the basis for both a recommendation by the DSB to the United States to bring its measures into conformity and would also form the basis for continued action by Brazil under Article 3 of the SCM Agreement.
16 Ibid., para. 304. 17 Ibid., paras. 272-286. 18 Ibid., paras. 287-294. 19 Ibid., para. 306. 20 Ibid., para. 306. 21 US First Written Submission, para. 160. 22 Ibid., para. 167. 23 Ibid., paras. 171 to 183. 24 US First Written Submission, paras. 171 and 218.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-65
A. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES MAY PROVIDE "EXPORT SUBSIDIES" UNDER THE AGRICULTURE AGREEMENT
29. Under the SCM Agreement, export subsidies are prohibited. Under the Agriculture Agreement, certain export subsidies are allowed up to certain limits. The export subsidy disciplines of the SCM Agreement apply subject to the export subsidy disciplines of the Agriculture Agreement.25 The Appellate Body confirmed in its first Canada - Dairy implementation report that "the WTOconsistency of an export subsidy for agricultural products has to be examined, in the first place, under the Agreement on Agriculture."26 Canada sets out the relevant provisions of both Agreements in this section.
30. Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement defines "export subsidies" as "subsidies contingent upon export performance, including the export subsidies listed in Article 9 of this Agreement". Article 3.3 sets out the obligation of Members not to provide export subsidies listed in Article 9 in excess of scheduled commitment levels:
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2(b) and 4 of Article 9, a Member shall not provide export subsidies listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9 in respect of the agricultural products or groups of products specified in Section II of Part IV of its Schedule in excess of the budgetary outlay and quantity commitment levels specified therein and shall not provide such subsidies in respect of any agricultural product not specified in that Section of its Schedule.
31. Article 8 of the Agriculture Agreement confirms the fundamental obligations of Members with respect to the provision of export subsidies:
Each Member undertakes not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement and with the commitments as specified in that Member's Schedule.
32. Article 9 of the Agriculture Agreement lists and describes certain export subsidies that are subject to reduction commitments. All other export subsidies fall within the scope of Article 10.1, which reads:
Export subsidies not listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9 shall not be applied in a manner which results in, or which threatens to lead to, circumvention of export subsidy commitments; nor shall non-commercial transactions be used to circumvent such commitments.
33. The Agriculture Agreement does not define the term "subsidy" in the definition of "export subsidy" in Article 1(e) of the Agreement. The Appellate Body drew upon the definition of a "subsidy" in Article 1.1 of the SCM Agreement as context to the term "subsidy" in Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement in both its original Canada ­ Dairy report and its original and implementation
25 See Article 3.1 of the SCM Agreement and Articles 13(c)(ii) and 21.1 of the Agriculture Agreement. 26 Canada - Measures Affecting the Importation of Milk and the Exportation of Dairy Products: Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by New Zealand and the United States, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS103/AB/RW, WT/DS113/AB/RW, adopted 18 December 2001, paras. 123-124.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-66

reports in US - FSC.27 The Appellate Body also held in US - FSC that the "contingent upon export performance" requirements in the Agriculture Agreement and the SCM Agreement are the same.28

34. Article 1.1 of the SCM Agreement sets out the definition of a subsidy, which reads in relevant part:

1.1 For the purpose of this Agreement, a subsidy shall be deemed to exist if:

(a)(1)

there is a financial contribution by a government or any public body

within the territory of a Member..., i.e. where:

(i) a government practice involves... potential direct transfers of funds or liabilities (e.g. loan guarantees); ...

and

(b) a benefit is thereby conferred.

35. Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement describes export subsidies as follows:

3.1 Except as provided in the Agreement on Agriculture, the following subsidies, within the meaning of Article 1, shall be prohibited:

(a) subsidies contingent, in law or in fact, whether solely or as one of several other conditions, upon export performance, including those illustrated in Annex I...

36. Annex I of the SCM Agreement includes in particular item (j), which reads:

The provision by governments (or special institutions controlled by governments) of export credit guarantee or insurance programmes, of insurance or guarantee programmes against increases in the cost of exported products or of exchange risk programmes, at premium rates which are inadequate to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the programmes.

37. Canada provides views only on key elements of Articles 1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement that are applicable to a determination of whether the US programmes provide "export subsidies" under Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement. If they do, then they are subject to US obligations under Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement.

B. US EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES MAY GRANT EXPORT SUBSIDIES UNDER ARTICLE 1(E) OF THE AGRICULTURE AGREEMENT AND ARTICLE 3.1(A) OF THE SCM AGREEMENT

38. Based on the evidence and arguments presented by the disputing parties at this stage in the proceedings, it is Canada's assessment that US export credit guarantee programmes may provide "subsidies contingent upon export performance" under Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement that

27 See Canada - Measures Affecting the Importation of Milk and the Exportation of Dairy Products,
Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS103/AB/R, WT/DS113/R, adopted 27 October 1999, para. 87; US ­ FSC
AB Report, paras. 136-137; United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations: Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by the European Communities, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS108/AB/RW,
adopted 29 January 2002, para. 194 [hereinafter US ­ FSC Article 21.5 AB Report]. 28 US ­ FSC AB Report, paras. 141-142; US ­ FSC Article 21.5 AB Report, para. 192.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-67
are "not listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9", pursuant to Article 10.1. Because the United States has no export subsidy reduction commitments for upland cotton, it may have violated Article 10.1 by applying such subsidies in a manner that results in circumvention of its export subsidy commitments. The United States may have also therefore violated Article 8 by providing export subsidies "otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement".
39. Evidence submitted by Brazil indicates that the United States has exceeded its quantitative export subsidy reduction commitment level for various agricultural commodities, including upland cotton.29 Accordingly, were the Panel to accept such evidence, the United States would bear the burden of establishing that no export subsidies have been granted in respect of the quantity of exports in question pursuant to Article 10.3 of the Agriculture Agreement.30
40. The United States cannot deny that US export credit guarantees involve a "financial contribution" in the form of a "potential direct transfer of funds" under Article 1.1(a)(1)(i) of the SCM Agreement. Export credit guarantees are loan guarantees. Nor can the United States deny that the export guarantees are contingent upon export performance under Article 3.1(a) of the Agreement. Canada therefore addresses only the "benefit" requirement of the subsidy definition under Article 1.1(b) of the SCM Agreement.
41. The determination of a "benefit" in transactions involving agricultural commodities is necessarily factual. However, any assessment of the facts in this dispute must be undertaken within an appropriate legal framework. The applicable framework in this dispute is based on wellestablished WTO case law.
42. In Canada ­ Aircraft, the panel found that:
... a financial contribution will only confer a "benefit", i.e., an advantage, if it is provided on terms that are more advantageous than those that would have been available to the recipient on the market.31
43. The Appellate Body upheld this finding:
We ... believe that the word "benefit", as used in Article 1.1(b), implies some kind of comparison. This must be so, for there can be no "benefit" to the recipient unless the "financial contribution" makes the recipient "better off" than it would otherwise have been, absent that contribution. In our view, the marketplace provides an appropriate basis for comparison in determining whether a "benefit" has been "conferred", because the trade-distorting potential of a "financial contribution" can be identified by determining whether the recipient has received a "financial contribution" on terms more favourable than those available to the recipient in the market.32
44. Based on this reasoning, the question is whether there is a difference between the amount that the firm receiving the guarantee pays on credit guaranteed under the US programmes and the amount that the firm would pay on a comparable commercial loan absent that guarantee. The benefit is the
29 Brazil First Written Submission, paras. 265-266. 30 See Canada ­ Measures Affecting the Importation of Milk and the Exportation of Dairy Products: Second Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by New Zealand and the United States, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS103/AB/RW2, WT/DS113/AB/RW2, adopted 17 January 2003, para. 73. 31 Canada ­ Measures Affecting the Export of Civilian Aircraft, Report of the Panel, WT/DS70/R, adopted 20 August 1999, para. 9.112. 32 Canada ­ Measures Affecting the Export of Civilian Aircraft, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS70/AB/R, adopted August 20, 1999 at para. 157.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-68
difference between these two amounts adjusted for any differences in fees. The useful context provided by Article 14(c) of the SCM Agreement supports such a standard. Article 14(c) reads:
[A] loan guarantee by a government shall not be considered as conferring a benefit, unless there is a difference between the amount that the firm receiving the guarantee pays on a loan guaranteed by the government and the amount that the firm would pay on a comparable commercial loan absent the government guarantee. In this case the benefit shall be the difference between these two amounts adjusted for any differences in fees[.]
45. The panel in Canada - Aircraft II established a similar standard in respect of equity guarantees provided through a Canadian provincial government financing institution called Investissement Québec (IQ).33 The panel reasoned as follows:
Consistent with the findings of the panel and Appellate Body in Canada ­ Aircraft, we consider that IQ equity guarantees will confer a "benefit" to the extent that they are made available to Bombardier customers on terms more favourable than those on which such Bombardier customers could obtain comparable equity guarantees in the market. We note that the parties appear to agree that this standard can be applied by reviewing the fees, if any, charged by IQ for providing its equity guarantees. We agree that the "benefit" standard could be applied to IQ equity guarantees in this manner. Thus, to the extent that IQ's fees are more favourable than fees that would be charged by guarantors with Québec's credit rating in the market for comparable transactions, IQ's equity guarantees may be deemed to confer a "benefit".34
46. The panel went on to find that:
... a "benefit" could arise if there is a difference between the cost of equity with and without an IQ equity guarantee, to the extent that such difference is not covered by the fees charged by IQ for providing the equity guarantee. In our opinion, it is safe to assume that such cost difference would not be covered by IQ's fees if it is established that IQ's fees are not market-based.35
47. Regarding IQ loan guarantees, the panel applied the same reasoning:
In considering precisely what Brazil must show in order to demonstrate the existence of a "benefit", we note the findings of the panel and Appellate Body in Canada ­ Aircraft. We therefore consider that IQ loan guarantees will confer a "benefit" to the extent that they are made available to Bombardier customers on terms more favourable that those on which such Bombardier customers could obtain comparable loan guarantees in the market. In applying this standard, we are guided by Article 14(c) of the SCM Agreement, which provides contextual guidance for interpreting the term "benefit" in the context of loan guarantees.
(...)
In our view, and taking into account the contextual guidance afforded by Article 14(c), we consider that an IQ loan guarantee will confer a "benefit" when
33 Canada ­ Export Credits and Loan Guarantees for Regional Aircraft, Report of the Panel, WT/DS222/R, adopted 19 February 2002, para. 7.397 [hereinafter Canada ­ Export Credits, Panel Report].
34 Canada ­ Export Credits, Panel Report, para. 7.344. 35 Canada ­ Export Credits, Panel Report, para. 7.345.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-69
"there is a difference between the amount that the firm receiving the guarantee pays on a loan guaranteed by [IQ] and the amount that the firm would pay on a comparable commercial loan absent the [IQ] guarantee. In this case the benefit shall be the difference between these two amounts adjusted for any differences in fees". In other words, there will be a "benefit" when the cost-saving for a Bombardier customer for securing a loan with an IQ loan guarantee is not offset by IQ's fees. In our opinion, it is safe to assume that this will be the case if it is established that IQ's fees are not market-based.36
48. The same standard applies in the current dispute.
49. The United States avoids addressing the standard under Article 1.1(b) and argues simply that its export credit guarantee programmes "do not run afoul of the criteria of item (j)" of Annex I of the SCM Agreement and that, therefore, "...they are not a prohibited export subsidy under Article 3.1(a) of the Subsidies Agreement."37 The United States asks the panel to interpret item (j) a contrario, meaning that if its measures meet the description of the programmes in the provisions but do not meet the standard for being considered a subsidy per se, the measures must be deemed not to confer export subsidies. However, item (j) does not create a "safe haven" for export credit guarantees where "premium rates... are [adequate] to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the [programme]." To the contrary, item (j) "sets out the circumstances in which the grant of loan guarantees is per se deemed to be an export subsidy."38 It simply "illustrates" deemed export subsidy practices. Nothing in the context or object and purpose of the SCM Agreement supports the US interpretation.
50. The issue of whether the premium rates under the US programmes are adequate under item (j) of Annex I of the SCM Agreement is necessarily factual. However, even if the US programmes charge adequate fees under the item (j) standard, the United States must nevertheless demonstrate that no export subsidies have been granted in respect of the quantity of exports in question in accordance with Articles 10.1 and 10.3 of the Agriculture Agreement. In other words, it must demonstrate the absence of subsidization on a transaction-by-transaction basis under Articles 1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement.
51. The United States also argues at length that Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement exempts export credit practices from subsidy disciplines under the Agreement. This argument is untenable.
52. Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture reads:
Members undertake to work toward the development of internationally agreed disciplines to govern the provision of export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes and, after agreement on such disciplines, to provide export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes only in conformity therewith.
53. Article 10.2 refers to "disciplines to govern the provision of export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes" and not to "disciplines to govern the provision of export subsidies in the form of export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes". This provision sets out an intention on the part of Members to undertake further work regarding these measures ­ the simple fact of agreeing to do so, however, does not amount to a permission to use those measures to confer export subsidies without consequence and without limit. The US
36 Canada ­ Export Credits, Panel Report, paras. 7.397 and 7.398. 37 US First Written Submission, para. 183. 38 Canada ­ Export Credits, Panel Report, para. 7.395.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-70
interpretation of Article 10.2 ignores the important context provided by Article 10.1. It also directly contradicts the stated object and purpose of Article 10 as a whole: "Prevention of Circumvention of Export Subsidy Commitments".39
54. Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement does not exempt the United States from its obligation to demonstrate, under Article 10.3, that no export subsidies have been granted in respect of the quantity of exports in question in this dispute contrary to Article 10.1. For the United States to meet the requirements of Article 10.3, it must demonstrate the absence of subsidization as understood under Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement. Indeed, the United States does not address Articles 1(e) or 10.1, or any prior panel and Appellate Body findings thereon.
IV. CONCLUSION 55. At this stage of the proceedings, it is Canada's view that if the panel accepts the evidence presented by Brazil in its first written submission, it would find that PFC payments and direct payments do not satisfy the policy-specific criteria in paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement. Contrary to those requirements, the amount of these payments would be found to vary based on current production of certain fruit, vegetables and wild rice.
56. Regarding the US export credit guarantee programmes, in Canada's view, were the Panel to find that these programs provide export subsidies within the meaning of Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement, then it would also find that the United States has violated Articles 8 and 10.1 at the very least in respect of exports of upland cotton.
39 See also "Export Credits and Related Facilities", Background Paper by the Secretariat, G/AG/NG/S/13, 26 June 2000 [Exhibit CDA-2.] at para. 44:
[A]s matters currently stand the only rules and disciplines on agricultural export credits are those of the Agreement on Agriculture but only to the extent that such measures constitute export subsidies for the purposes of the Agreement on Agriculture. Where exports of an agricultural product are considered to be subsidised through export credits or related facilities, ascertaining the exported quantities benefitting [sic] from such measures for the purposes of determining conformity with export quantity reduction commitments would be reasonably straight forward. Quantifying related budgetary outlays and revenue foregone for the annual commitment level in question, using market-related premium or interest rate benchmarks for example (it is not clear what, if any, role there might be for export credit "subsidy equivalents" in this context), may be less straight forward but not necessarily problematic.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-71

ANNEX B-7

THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION OF CHINA
15 July 2003

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

1. INTRODUCTION................................................................................................ 72 2. ARGUMENTS...................................................................................................... 72 2.1. The Burden of Proof Under The Peace Clause.................................................. 72 2.2 Proper Categorization Of US FSRI 2002 Direct Payments.............................. 73 2.3 Panel Treatment Of Measures
Found By Earlier Proceedings To Be In Violation ........................................... 74 3. CONCLUSION .................................................................................................... 77

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-72
1. INTRODUCTION
1. China is appreciative of this opportunity to present its views to the Panel in this proceeding on various domestic supports and export subsidies granted by the United States (the "US") for the production, use and export of US upland cotton.
2. In line with this Panel's decision dated 20 June 2003, China will focus its submission to issues relating to
(1) the burden of proof under Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture (the "Peace Clause");
(2) proper categorization of direct payments under the US. Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ("FSRI"); and
(3) treatment of a non-complying measure by this Panel.
In China's opinion, these three issues, amongst others, call for close attention and analysis by the Panel.
2. ARGUMENTS
2.1. The Burden Of Proof Under The Peace Clause
3. China agrees with Brazil that "the [P]eace [C]lause is in the nature of an affirmative defense, and that the burden of proof that US domestic support and export subsidies to upland cotton are provided in conformity with the requirements of the [P]eace [C]lause lies with the United States and not with Brazil as the complainant"1.
4. The burden of proof issue has been squarely dealt with by the Appellate Body in the US ­ Shirts and Blouses Case2. It stated that a complaining party asserting a claim under a positive rule, establishing obligations in themselves, first has the burden of proof to establish a prima facie case of an infringement of obligations by the responding Member, then the burden shift to the responding Member to adduces sufficient evidence to rebut the presumption3. However, with respect to rules providing "limited exceptions from obligations under certain other provisions of the GATT 1994", the Appellate Body is of the view that they are "in the nature of affirmative defense, thus it is only reasonable that the burden of establishing such a defense should rest on the party asserting it"4.
5. The parties to this dispute disagree on the nature of the Peace Clause. The US does not see the Peace Clause as an affirmative defense; it argues that portions of the Peace Clause impose positive obligations. It cites Articles 13(a)(i), 13(a)(ii) and 13(b)(ii) of the Peace Clause to prove that by incorporating obligations under Article 6 and Annex 2 within the "conform fully to" requirement, the Peace Clause contains positive obligations on members5.
1 Para. 107, Page 50, First Submission of Brazil, 24 June 2003. 2 Section IV, Appellate Body Report, US - Shirts and Blouses, WT/DS33/AB/R. 3 Page13-14, Section IV Burden of Proof, Appellate Body Report, US - Shirts and Blouses, WT/DS33/AB/R. 4 Page 15-16, Section IV and Text at Note 23, Appellate Body Report, US - Shirts and Blouses, WT/DS33/AB/R . 5 Paras. 43 and 45, US First Written Submission, 11 July 2003.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-73
6. China has a different opinion. When stand-alone, Article 6 in and Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture and may contain positive obligations on Members. However, when cross-referred to by Articles 13(a)(ii) and 13(b)(ii) respectively, they are brought under the Peace Clause to form part and parcel of pre-conditions to its application. Generic components of the relevant Peace Clause provisions6 are (i) domestic support measures or export subsidies; (ii) that fully conform to Annex 2 and/or Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture; (iii) are exempt from actions; (iv) provided that...7 The thrust of the relevant provisions of the Peace Clause lies in its exemption of measures from certain actions. To qualify under the exemption, a measure under item (i) above must first meet the requirements under items (ii) and (iv) above. The moment either Annex 2 or Article 6 are brought into "fully conform to" formula under item (ii) above, it ranks pari passu with the other requirement under item (iv) above to form conditions precedent to a successful exemption.
7. China believes the US errs on seeing no distinction between "obligation" and "condition". The Peace Clause requirement for full conformity to Article 6 and Annex 2 does not create new obligations because Members have to comply with Article 6 and Annex 2 whether Article 13 exists or not. Within the Peace Clause, these requirements do not stand to impose obligations on Members, but to set conditions precedent for a Members intending to invoke Peace Clause protection. Positive obligations to comply with Article 6 and Annex 2, lie under where they are, i.e. under Article 6 and Annex 2, but not under the Peace Clause.
8. China does not see any "absurdity" as described by the United States in its written submission8. No such "absurdity" would be instilled into the process if at the first stage, the party alleging protection of Peace Clause for its measures is required to discharge its burden to prove that such measures do conform to the relevant Peace Clause conditions; if it cannot so prove, the measures would lose Peace Clause protection. A second stage will follow for the party claiming against the measures to establish its substantive case, without the Peace Clause shield.
9. China hopes the above two-step approach will help both this Panel and the parties to move the procedures on towards resolution of the case.
2.2 Proper Categorization Of US FSRI 2002 Direct Payments
10. The United States in its first written submission argues that direct payments ("DP") under FSRI conforms fully to Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture9 and are therefore "Green Box" in nature. Brazil argues that DP programme is inconsistent with Paras. 1, 6(a) and (b) of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture, as
(1) it conditions the type of production undertaken by the producer10;
(2) it sanctions base period updating11; and
(3) it has production and trade-distorting effects12.
11. Para. 6(a) of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture provides to the effect that eligibility for "Green Box" direct payment support measures "shall be determined by clearly-defined criteria"
6 Articles 13(b)(ii), 13(b)(iii) and 13(c)(ii), the Agreement on Agriculture. 7 Note that Article 13(c)(ii) of the Peace Clause has no such proviso. 8 Para. 36, US First Written Submission, 11 July 2003. 9 Paras. 54 through to 68, US First Written Submission, 11 July 2003. 10 Para. 174, First Submission of Brazil, 24 June 2003. 11 Paras. 176 through to 182, First Submission of Brazil, 24 June 2003. 12 Paras. 183 through to 191, First Submission of Brazil, 24 June 2003.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-74
"in a defined and fixed base period." The word "in" requires a link between the "criteria" and the "defined and fixed base period". In other words, to qualify for "Green Box" direct payment measure under Para. 6(a), a criterion adopted by a Member must be tied, in a chronological sense, to a starting time frame that cannot be moved up on the calendar.
12. As the United States concedes, production acreage is a criterion for making FSRI DP13. However, under FSRI, production acreage for the purpose of DP is not tied to a defined and fixed base period. It moves progressively along the calendar.
13. Under the FSRI DP scheme, payment acreage, being one factor in calculating payment14, is 85% of a person's base acreage. Base acreage, in turn, are either (i) "a four year average (1998-2001) of plantings of covered commodities (including upland cotton)", or (ii) the total of production flexibility contract ("PFC") acreage under the US 1996 Federal Agricultural Reform Improvement and Reform Act ("FAIR") and the four-year average (1998-2001) of plantings of eligible oilseeds15. With respect to base acreage calculation method (i) above, the United States explains, FSRI DP allowed landowners to retain PFC base acres and "add 1998-2001 acres of eligible oilseeds or simply declare base acreage for all covered commodities" (including upland cotton)16. With respect to base acreage calculation method (ii) above, the United States explains that while a landowner may elect to simply utilize acres devoted to covered commodities during the 1998-2001 period for purpose of DP, a landowner need not do so; base acres may remain those under FAIR, implying no cotton production need have occurred since the 1993-1995 period for a landowner to have "cotton base acres". The United States then concludes that "[t]hese ... base acres are defined in the 2002 [FSRI] Act and fixed for the duration of the legislation (that it, from marketing year 2002-2007)"17. Such a conclusion ignores the fact that during the progression from PFC to DP, the requisite link between the programme acreage as a criterion and the "defined and fixed" starting time frame is broken. The change of legislation from FAIR to FSRI and the replacement of PFC with DP were utilized for producers to leap from their previous coverage acreage, which should have been tied to the base period, to a new updated acreage in 2002.
14. Enticement certainly exists for a producer to obtain more payments by leaping over the calendar and updating production acreage. The fundamental requirement that "no, or at most minimal trade distorting effects or effects on production" as required by Article 1 of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture is therefore not met.
15. In China's opinion, without dwelling upon the burden of proof issue, the preponderance of evidence as produced by the parties indicates that the US DP under FSRI fails to meet the "tie" requirement under Para. 6(a) of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture and shall be properly categorized as non-"Green Box" measures.
2.3 Panel Treatment Of Measures Found By Earlier Proceedings To Be In Violation
16. Brazil also brought claims against export subsidy support granted for upland cotton export sales by US "Foreign Sales Corporations" ("FSCs") under the "FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000" ("ETI Act") 18.
13 Paras. 56 and 67, US. First Written Submission, July 11, 2003., 14 Para. 58, Ibid. 15 Para. 59, Ibid. 16 Para. 60, Ibid. 17 Subpara. 67(1), Ibid. 18 Paras. 315 through to 330, First Submission of Brazil.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-75
17. The US ETI Act has previously been found to violate the Agreement on Agriculture and the Subsidies Agreement by both the panel19 and the Appellate Body20 in US ­ FSC (21.5). On 29 January 2002, the WTO Dispute Settlement Body (the "DSB") adopted the panel and Appellate Body reports, declaring that the ETI Act violates Articles 3.1(a) and 4.7 of the Subsidies Agreement, Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture and Article III:4 of GATT 1994.
18. As the United States had failed to implement the DSB recommendations and rulings within the prescribed time framework, on 25 April 2003, the European Communities (the "EC") requested the DSB authorization to take appropriate countermeasures and to suspend concessions pursuant to Article 4.10 of the Subsidies Agreement and Article 22.7 of the DSU21. On 7 May 2003, the DSB authorized the EC to impose countermeasures against the US.
19. Brazil quoted main EC arguments and portions of the panel's and the Appellate Body's reasoning from their respective reports in US ­ FSC (21.5), all to persuade this Panel into taking the same reasoning and conclusion22.
20. China believes that the panel and the Appellate Body's reasoning and their conclusion in US ­ FSC (21.5) are of extraordinary value to the current Panel.
21. First, "[a]dopted panel reports are an important part of the GATT acquis. They are often considered by subsequent panels. They create legitimate expectations among WTO members, and, therefore, should be taken into account where they are relevant to any dispute. [emphasis added]." 23 Export subsidy support provided to upland cotton export sales by US "Foreign Sales Corporations" under the ETI Act as challenged by Brazil in this case, is exactly the very same one challenged by the EC and found to violate the Agreement on Agriculture and the Subsidies Agreement by the panel24 and the Appellate Body25 in US ­ FSC (21.5). The panel and the Appellate Body's decisions, as well as DSB's adoption of same in US ­ FSC (21.5), have already created "legitimate expectations" among WTO members. Should this Panel re-consider the arguments, analysis and conclusions in respect of the same measure adopted by the same Member in dispute, and re-decide with even the slightest difference, the WTO Members' legitimate expectations will be seriously disturbed and offended. Unless the current Panel finds the FSC export subsidies under the ETI Act challenged by Brazil in this case different from the FSC export subsidies under the ETI Act challenged by the EC in the US ­ FSC (21.5), relevancy is fulfilled to the maximum extent possible. The very same export subsidies shall be governed by the same juridical analysis, rule and conclusion. Substantive deviation from that the reasoning and conclusion of the earlier case on the same measure may well cast misgivings on the established DSB authority and reputation.
22. The United States in its First Written Submission argues that:
19 Panel Report, US - FSC (21.5), WT/DS108/RW, adopted on 29 January, 2002. 20 Appellate Body Report in US - FSC (21.5), AB-2002-1, WT/DS108/AB/RW,adopted on 29 January, 2002. 21 Recourse by the European Communities to Article 4.10 of the Subsidies Agreement and Article 22.7 of the DSU, WT/DS/108/26, circulated on April 25, 2003. 22 Paras. 315 through to 327, First Submission of Brazil. 23 Para. E, Report of the Appellate Body, Japan - Taxes on Alcoholic Beverages, AB-1996-2, adopted on 1 November 1996). 24 Paras.8.30, 8.46, 8.48, 8.50, 8.74, 8.75, and 9.1(a.), Panel Report, US - FSC (21.5), WT/DS108/RW, adopted on 29 January 2002. 25 Paras.111, 116 through to 120, 122, 194, 196, and 256(d), Appellate Body Report, US - FSC (21.5), AB-2002-1, WT/DS108/AB/RW, adopted on 29 January 2002.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-76
It also is well-established that even though panels may take into account prior panel and Appellate Body reports, "panels are not bound by previous decisions of panels or the Appellate Body even if the subject-matter is the same."26
China notes that US had omitted the immediate subsequent paragraph, in which the panel states:
However, in the course of "normal dispute settlement procedures" required under Article 10.4 of the DSU, we will take into account the conclusions and reasoning in the Panel and Appellate Body reports in WT/DS50. Moreover, in our examination, we believe that we should give significant weight to both Article 3.2 of the DSU, which stresses the role of the WTO dispute settlement system in providing security and predictability to the multilateral trading system, and to the need to avoid inconsistent rulings (which concern has been referred to by both parties). In our view, these considerations form the basis of the requirement of the referral to the "original panel" wherever possible under Article 10.4 of the DSU.27 [emphasis added]
China believes that second sentence following the US quote from the panel's report could not be more relevant to the US ETI Act before this Panel.
23. Secondly, the DSB has already, upon request by the EC, authorized the EC to impose countermeasures against the US, for its failure to implement the DSB recommendations and rulings within the prescribed time framework. DSB's authorization to counteract
(1) further strengthens the weight of the panel and the Appellate Body's decisions in US ­ FSC (21.5). Authorization by the DSB for countermeasures against the very same measures is a collective reflection that the measures shall have been withdrawn, and;
(2) brings up the need for efficiency. Given the DSB's heavy caseload, as well as workload of this Panel, benefits of efficiency far overweighs whatever need for repeating the work that had been completely accomplished by a previous panel and the Appellate Body.
24. Thirdly, in light of difficulties encountered by the DSB in encouraging compliance subsequent to the US ­ FSC (21.5) proceedings, a different finding by this Panel in relation to ETI in the current dispute will frustrate WTO's effectiveness as reflected in the DSB mechanism. The essence of "[p]rompt compliance with recommendations or rulings of the DSB" "to ensure effective resolution of disputes to the benefit of all Members" called for under Article 21.1of the DSU will evaporate.
25. Being a multilateral system, the WTO cannot afford to permit non-compliance by any Member in its face. One dispute settled will definitively involve several legal issues having been clarified and practices of certain members adjudicated. Such clarification and adjudication in one case must serve to benefit all members in the multilateral system. As Article 3.2 of the DSU tries to impress, the dispute settlement system of the WTO is a pivotal element in providing uniform security and predictability to the multilateral trading system and to avoid multiplication of the same practices being disputed in separate but non-distinct cases. To compel panels in later instances to re-visit the
26 Para. 185, First Written Submission of the US, 11 July 2003, quoting in quotation marks Para. 7.30, Panel Report, India ­ Patent Protection for Pharmaceutical and Agricultural Chemical Products, WT/DS79/R, adopted 22 September 1998.
27 Para. 7.30, Panel Report, India ­ Patent Protection for Pharmaceutical and Agricultural Chemical Product, WT/DS79/R, adopted 22 September 1998.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-77
same legal issue and re-adjudicate the same practices the DSB recommends against on a second or even indefinite analytical journey would relegate WTO dispute settlement regime into disrepute.
26. The concern is not unfounded. The fact that Brazil had to resort to the WTO dispute settlement system and bring the ETI Act before this Panel is distinctly telling. This current Panel must put an end to that concern by ruling that the panel and the Appellate Body's reasoning and their conclusion in US ­ FSC (21.5) be taken by this Panel, unless by the time the current Panel makes it decision, such measures will have already been withdrawn by the US.
3. CONCLUSION
27. To sum up, China is of the following opinion:
(1) The Peace Clause is an affirmative defense in nature, and a party seeking its protection bears the burden of proof;
(2) The US DP, which removes production acreage from its required nexus with a defined and fixed based period by allowing acreage updating, is not "Green Box" measure within the meaning of Para. 6(a) of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture; and
(3) The US ETI Act has been found by a prior panel and the Appellate Body to violate the Agreement on Agriculture and the Subsidies Agreement. In addition, the DSB has authorized the complaining party in the prior proceeding to take countermeasures. In light of coherency and efficiency of the WTO dispute settlement mechanism, this Panel shall take the reasoning and conclusion of the Appellate Body in the earlier case.
28. China thanks this Panel for granting this opportunity to present its views on issues related to this proceeding, and hopes that this Panel will finds the above points helpful.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-78
ANNEX B-8
FIRST THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES
15 July 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................. 79 II. PRELIMINARY ISSUE - BRAZIL'S REFERENCE TO A "MANDATORY /
DISCRETIONARY DOCTRINE" IS UNFOUNDED......................................................... 79 III. ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE CANNOT BE
CONSIDERED AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE ............................................................... 80 IV. THE INTERPRETATION OF ANNEX 2 OF THE AGREEMENT ON
AGRICULTURE .................................................................................................................... 82 A. THE RELEVANCE OF THE FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH 1 OF ANNEX 2 ............................... 82 B. INTERPRETATION OF PARAGRAPH 6 OF ANNEX 2...................................................................... 84 V. INTERPRETATION OF ARTICLES 10.1 AND 10.2 OF THE AGREEMENT
ON AGRICULTURE (EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES) ............................................ 85 VI. CONCLUSION ....................................................................................................................... 86

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-79
I. INTRODUCTION
1. This dispute raises a number of complex yet important questions in respect of the applicable WTO regime for trade in agricultural goods. In this First Third Party Submission, the European Communities has submitted arguments on a number of questions raised by Brazil's First Written Submission.1 However, the present submission should not be seen as exhaustive. Given the very short period between the deadline for the US First Written Submission and the deadline for submissions from third parties, the European Communities has not been able to incorporate in this submission a response to all of the arguments brought in the US First Written Submission which might merit a comment. Consequently, the European Communities reserves its right to submit argument on other questions (or to further develop the arguments set out here) at the First Session of the First Substantive Meeting with the Parties.
2. Following the Panel's invitation of 20 June 2003, the European Communities has essentially limited itself to questions related to the interpretation of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, and some of the "non-peace clause" related claims brought by Brazil. The European Communities will therefore argue that :
 As a preliminary matter, Brazil is incorrect to consider that only legislation which mandates a particular action can be found inconsistent with the WTO Agreements;
 Article 13 Agreement on Agriculture is not an affirmative defence;
 The first sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture does not create a free-standing obligation, separate from the basic criteria set out in the second sentence of paragraph 1; and,
 Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture does not exempt export credits and export credit guarantees from the disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture.
3. The European Communities does not express an opinion on the application of the relevant legal interpretations to the facts of this dispute.
II. PRELIMINARY ISSUE - BRAZIL'S REFERENCE TO A "MANDATORY / DISCRETIONARY DOCTRINE" IS UNFOUNDED
4. Before turning to the substantive questions of interpretation the European Communities would like to touch briefly upon one systemic issue raised in Brazil's submission. Brazil states in its First Written Submission that:
"It is established under WTO law that a Member can only challenge measures of another Member per se if such measures mandate a violation of the WTO Agreement."2
5. Brazil cites as authority for this position para. 88 of the Appellate Body's Report in United States ­ 1916 Act. However, the Appellate Body did not "establish" that measures can only be
1 Brazil's First Submission to the Panel regarding the "Peace Clause" and Non-Peace Clause Related Claims, 24 June 2003 ("Brazil's First Written Submission").
2 Brazil's First Written Submission, para. 244. See, in the same sense, paras. 250 and 341.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-80
challenged if they mandate a violation of the WTO Agreements. In that case, the Appellate Body upheld the panel's finding that the legislation in question was not discretionary and thus;
"[did] not find it necessary to consider [..] whether Article 18.4, or any other provision of the Anti-Dumping Agreement, has supplanted or modified the distinction between mandatory and discretionary legislation".3
6. Panels have taken different approaches to this issue. The panel in United States ­ Section 301 found that discretionary legislation may violate certain WTO obligations.4 This approach can be contrasted with that of the panel in United States ­ Export Restraints.5 More recently, the Appellate Body in considering an EC claim against US legislation noted that;
"[it did not] preclud[e] the possibility that a Member could violate its WTO obligations by enacting legislation granting discretion to its authorities to act in violation of its WTO obligations. We [the Appellate Body] make no finding in this respect".6
7. Consequently, it is far from established that only mandatory legislation can be found per se inconsistent with the WTO Agreements. The European Communities, for one, is convinced that discretionary legislation may, in certain circumstances, be found to be inconsistent with WTO obligations. However, further discussion of this issue does not appear necessary at present, since Brazil claims that the legislation in question permits of no discretion and the United States does not appear to dispute this point.7 Consequently, the European Communities will not develop its arguments on this issue further in this submission.
III. ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE CANNOT BE CONSIDERED AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE
8. Brazil argues that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture should be understood as an affirmative defence and thus that the United States bears the burden of proof.8 The United States has indicated that it disagrees with this characterisation, and considers that Article 13 is not an affirmative defence.9
9. The European Communities shares the view of the United States that there are compelling reasons to consider that Article 13 is not an affirmative defence.10 Article 13 cannot be considered an
3 Appellate Body Report, United States ­ Anti-Dumping Act of 1916 ("United States ­ 1916 Act"), WT/DS136/AB/R, WT/DS162/AB/R, adopted 26 September 2000, para. 99
4 Panel Report, United States ­ Sections 301-310 of the Trade Act of 1974 ("United States ­ Section 301"), WT/DS152/R, adopted 27 January 2000, footnote 23, paras. 7.53-7.54. Note that the Appellate Body in United States ­ 1916 Act mentioned this finding, without suggesting that it was incorrect (see footnote 59 of the Appellate Body Report).
5 Panel report, United States ­ Measures Treating Export Restraints as Subsidies, WT/DS194/R, adopted 23 August 2001, paras. 8.8 and 8.9.
6 Footnote 334, Appellate Body Report, United States ­ Countervailing Measures Concerning Certain Products from the European Communities, WT/DS212/AB/R, adopted 8 January 2003.
7 Brazil's First Written Submission, para. 245. 8 Brazil's First Written Submission, paras. 110 to 121. 9 Para. 38, Comments of the United States of America on the Comments by Brazil and the Third Parties on the Question Posed by the Panel,.13 June 2003. See also First Written Submission of the United States of America, 11 July 2003 ("US First Written Submission"), paras. 38 to 47. 10 The European Communities is aware of the fact that it used the term "defence" in its Initial Submission to the Panel of 10 June 2003 (Para. 6 , Comments by the European Communities on certain issues raised on an initial basis by the Panel, 10 June 2003). It did so, however, in the context of a discussion of what

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-81
affirmative defence which will excuse a violation of another provision of the WTO Agreements. Rather, it seems to the European Communities, Article 13 is a form of "gateway" or "threshold" provision, which regulates the use of certain mechanisms (countervailing duties, serious prejudice claims, non-violation complaints) in respect of certain types of subsidies. Conformity with the conditions of Article 13 has the effect of providing an exemption from action under Article XVI GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement. Consequently, once a panel has determined whether or not agricultural subsides conform to the conditions of Article 13, it need not, indeed cannot, rule on whether those agricultural subsidies are consistent with Article XVI GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement. For that reason, it cannot be equated to a defence to a violation of a provision of a WTO Agreement, in the way, for instance, Article XX may be considered a defence to a violation of Article I or III GATT 1994.
10. Even assuming, arguendo, Brazil's contention that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is an exception to the otherwise applicable disciplines11, the Appellate Body has pointed out in EC-Hormones that merely characterising a provision as an "exception" and consequently an affirmative defence is insufficient to shift the burden of proof in dispute settlement proceedings.12 Any finding reversing the ordinary rule that the complaining party bears the burden of proof to establish a prima facie case must be derived from an application of the normal rules of treaty interpretation. The ordinary rules of treaty interpretation do not lead to such a conclusion in this case.
11. First, as noted above, the Panel is not asked to examine a general rule ­ exception situation with respect to Article 13. Article 13 is more akin to a threshold permitting further action if that threshold is not complied with.
12. Second, Article 13 is an integral part of the Agreement on Agriculture. In that sense, it is comparable to Article 6 of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Article 3.3 of the Sanitary and Phytosanitary Agreement and the second sentence of Article 2.4 of the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade which were found not to be affirmative defences by the Appellate Body.13 Article 13 incorporates the obligations which a WTO Member assumes under the Agreement on Agriculture should it decide to provide agricultural subsidies to its producers, and regulates the status of such subsidies with respect to potential dispute settlement and the application of countervailing duties. In a similar fashion, Article 6 of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing provides certain obligations which a WTO Member assumes if it decides to dis-apply the disciplines of the ATC in the form of a "transitional safeguard measure". Likewise, Article 3.3 of the Sanitary and Phytosanitary
appeared to be the extreme logical conclusion of the arguments which the United States made, in order to refute the proposition that the issue of conformity with Article 13 could only be dealt with in a separate panel proceeding, divorced from a panel proceeding which dealt with the claims conditional upon Article 13 not being applicable. The term "defence" was used in a general sense to connote an argument which could be invoked in reaction to another argument. Moreover, the European Communities did not use the term "affirmative defence" and did not use the term "defence" in the sense of a "defence [...] to a claim of violation of a GATT obligation" or as a "limited exception from certain other provisions of the [WTO Agreements]" (Appellate Body Report, United States ­ Measure Affecting Imports of Woven Wool Shirts and Blouses from India ("United States ­ Shirts and Blouses"), WT/DS33/AB/R, adopted 23 May 1997, page 15-16). Finally, the European Communities was addressing only the question posed by the Panel and not the question of the burden of proof applicable to Article 13.
11 Brazil's First Written Submission, para. 120. 12 Appellate Body Report, EC Measures Concerning Meat and Meat Products (Hormones) ("European Communities ­ Hormones"), WT/DS26/AB/R, WT/DS48/AB/R, adopted 13 February 1998, para. 104. 13 Appellate Body Report, United States ­ Measure Affecting Imports of Woven Wool Shirts and Blouses from India ("United States ­ Shirts and Blouses"), WT/DS33/AB/R, adopted 23 May 1997, page 16. European Communities ­ Hormones Para. 104, Appellate Body Report, European Communities -- Trade Description of Sardines (European Communities ­ Sardines), WT/DS231/AB/R, adopted 23 October 2002. Paras. 274-275.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-82
Agreement sets out obligations on a Member wishing to maintain a higher level of sanitary or phytosanitary protection than provided for in international standards. These provisions, like Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture provide certain rights to WTO Members, but cannot be seen as exceptions.
13. Third, as pointed out by the United States, considering Article 13 as an affirmative defence leads to perverse effects.14 If a complaining Member makes a claim that a Member has acted inconsistently with the Agreement on Agriculture, the complaining Member will bear the burden of proof to establish a breach of the Agreement. However, if Article 13 is considered an affirmative defence, where a complaining Member brings a claim arguing breach of both the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement the complaining Member would bear the burden of establishing a breach of the Agreement on Agriculture, the responding Member would bear the burden of proving that it was in compliance with the same provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture in order to apply Article 13, and the complaining Member would bear the burden of proof under the SCM Agreement. This cannot be what WTO Members intended when they negotiated Article 13. Indeed, the negotiators were aware of the issue of burden of proof and explicitly reversed the burden of proof in Article 10.3 Agreement on Agriculture with respect to potential circumvention of export subsidy commitments. That they did not agree on similar language with respect to Article 13 suggests that they intended the ordinary rules of burden of proof to apply.
14. Consequently, the European Communities respectfully requests that the Panel find that Article 13 is not an affirmative defence.
IV. THE INTERPRETATION OF ANNEX 2 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE
A. THE RELEVANCE OF THE FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH 1 OF ANNEX 2
15. Brazil argues in several instances that the first sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture is an independent obligation which must be satisfied in addition to the basic criteria set out in paragraph 1 and the policy-specific criteria set out in paragraphs 2 to 13 of Annex 2.15 The European Communities considers that this interpretation is incorrect. The first sentence does not set out an independent obligation. It simply signals the objective of Annex 2.
16. Paragraph 1 of Annex 2 reads as follows:
1. Domestic support measures for which exemption from the reduction commitments is claimed shall meet the fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production. Accordingly, all measures for which exemption is claimed shall conform to the following basic criteria:
(a) the support in question shall be provided through a publicly-funded government programme (including government revenue foregone) not involving transfers from consumers; and,
(b) the support in question shall not have the effect of providing price support to producers;
plus policy-specific criteria and conditions as set out below.
14 US First Written Submission, para. 44 15 See, e.g. Brazil's First Written Submission, paras. 163-172, 183-191 and 199-201.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-83
17. The European Communities will set out its understanding of the first sentence below. While some ambiguity as to the effect of the first sentence might arise when considering its ordinary meaning in isolation, as Brazil does, it is quite clear that, when seen in context, the first sentence should not be considered to be a free-standing obligation. This result also follows from a consideration of the objective of Annex 2.
18. It should be recalled that the provision of domestic subsidies for industrial products (i.e. nonexport contingent subsidies) is not prohibited as such under the SCM Agreement or other WTO Agreements.16 Such subsidies will only be actionable if they meet the requirements of Articles 1 and 2 of the SCM Agreement, and cause adverse effects to the interests of another Member in the sense of Article 5 of the SCM Agreement.
19. The Agreement on Agriculture initiated a process of reform for domestic support for agricultural products.17 Negotiators recognised that domestic support for agricultural products required discipline and binding limits on the amount of domestic support. However, given that the provision of domestic subsidies to industrial products can be unlimited, provided there is no infringement of Article 5 of the SCM Agreement, it would have been inequitable to subject all types of domestic support to the strict discipline and limitations of the Agreement on Agriculture when the economic effects of different types of measures are not comparable. Consequently, it was necessary for the negotiators to differentiate between those types of support measures whose economic effect was deemed significant18, and those types of measures whose economic effects were deemed less significant. This differentiation was achieved, not by defining those measures deemed to have a significant effect, but rather those deemed to have a less significant effect. The result was Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture.
20. The first sentence of paragraph 1 announces the differentiation which is achieved by the criteria set out in Annex 2.19 It sets out the logic for distinguishing between the types of domestic support which come under Annex 2 and are exempt from reduction commitments and other domestic support measures. That the first sentence does not set out an independent obligation can be seen from the next sentence of Paragraph 1 which starts with the word "accordingly". "Accordingly" means "in accordance with the logical premises; correspondingly".20 "Accordingly" consequently links the "fundamental requirement" in the first sentence with the "basic criteria" in the second sentence making it clear that in order to be considered to have "no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production" the measure must meet the basic criteria in the second sentence of paragraph 1 together with the policy-specific criteria set out in paragraphs 2 to 13.
16 Provided the subsidisation is not contingent upon the use of domestic over imported goods, in the sense of Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement.
17 See the Preamble to the Agreement on Agriculture. 18 Without analysing whether the effects would, in the absence of the Agreement on Agriculture and assuming the SCM Agreement to be applicable to agricultural goods, lead, in a particular case, for a particular product, to a finding of inconsistency with the SCM Agreement. 19 It can be noted that one commentator, who has undertaken one of the most comprehensive reviews of the Agreement on Agriculture, notes that the requirement in the first sentence of paragraph 1 is:
"[t]oo vague to translate into concrete and enforceable obligations. As an appreciation of this fact, the Agreement on Agriculture has gone to great lengths to provide a detailed and comprehensive [..] list of measures along with the general and specific criteria they have to satisfy before they are exempted from the reduction commitments."
P. 420-421, M. G. Desta, The Law of International Trade in Agricultural Products (Kluwer Law International 2002).
20 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1993.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-84
21. Contextual support for this position can be found in Annex 2 itself and in Articles 6 and 7 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
22. Paragraph 5 of Annex 2 states that support provided through direct payments which are to be exempted from reduction commitments "shall meet the basic criteria set out in paragraph 1 above, plus specific criteria applying to individual types of direct payment as set out in paragraphs 6 through 13." It is quite clear that the "basic criteria" referred to here is the "basic criteria" referred to in the second sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 1. There is no reference to the fundamental requirement and thus that the measures should have "no or at least minimal trade distorting effects or effects on production". Consequently, this fundamental requirement cannot be an additional criteria for a domestic measure to be exempted from reduction commitments under Annex 2.
23. Further support for this view is found in the Agreement on Agriculture. Article 6.1 applies to domestic support measures other than those "which are not subject to reduction in terms of the criteria set out in this Article and in Annex 2" (emphasis added). Article 7.1 obliges Members to ensure that domestic support measures "not subject to reduction commitments because they qualify under the criteria set out in Annex 2 to this Agreement are maintained in conformity therewith" (emphasis added). Article 7.2(a) goes on to state that "any measure that is subsequently introduced that cannot be shown to satisfy the criteria in Annex 2 to this Agreement [...] shall be included in the Member's calculation of its Current Total AMS" (emphasis added). Annex 2 itself clearly distinguishes between the "fundamental requirement" of the first sentence of paragraph 1 and the "basic criteria" of the second sentence of paragraph 1 and the "policy-specific criteria" set out in paragraphs 1 to 13. The use of the word "criteria" in Articles 6 and 7, and its use in Annex 2 make it quite clear that in order to be exempted from reduction commitments by virtue of inclusion in the green box a domestic support measure must meet the criteria. It is obvious that the negotiators developed the criteria in order to determine whether a policy could be deemed to meet the "fundamental requirement" set out in paragraph 1 of Annex 2 and did not intend the first sentence to set out an independent obligation.
24. This interpretation is also supported by the objective behind Annex 2 and the Agreement on Agriculture more generally. In the administration of its agricultural policy, in order to ensure respect for their reduction commitments, a WTO Member must know how to classify its support measures. It is thus vital, for reasons of legal security and predictability, that a Member can determine the classification of its measures. The clear and specific criteria set out in Annex 2 provides WTO Members with guidance on how to approach this task. Assuming Brazil's argument to be correct, a Member would also have to determine whether a particular measure to be taken might have a more than minimal trade distorting effect or effect on production. This is inevitably a difficult exercise, based on a subjective appreciation of a particular situation, which often may only be performed on an ex post facto basis. This is not a reasonable basis for advancing reform of trade in agriculture, and promoting the predictability of the system. Moreover, it can be noted that there is no such "effects" text in respect of other exempted domestic support measures viz. "de minimis payments" under Article 6.4 of the Agreement on Agriculture and "blue box payments" under Article 6.5 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
25. On the basis of the above, the European Communities respectfully requests the Panel to conclude that the first sentence of Paragraph 1 of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture does not impose an obligation independent of the basic and policy-specific criteria set out in Annex 2.
B. INTERPRETATION OF PARAGRAPH 6 OF ANNEX 2
26. Brazil's first written submission raises a number of questions as to the correct interpretation of paragraph 6 of Annex 2. The European Communities attaches the utmost importance to the correct interpretation of these provisions. While the European Communities is still analysing the Brazilian

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-85
and US arguments, it already takes note of the fact that the US does not claim that its counter-cyclical payments qualify as exempt under the green box.21
V. INTERPRETATION OF ARTICLES 10.1 AND 10.2 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE (EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES)
27. Brazil argues that the US export credit guarantee schemes violate the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement.22 The European Communities can concur with this argument to the extent it can be confirmed that the export credit guarantees in question are to be considered export subsidies.
28. The European Communities points out, in this regard, that Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture cannot be considered to exempt export credit guarantees from the disciplines of Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.23 Article 10.2 states:
Members undertake to work toward the development of internationally agreed disciplines to govern the provision of export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes and, after agreement on such disciplines, to provide export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes only in conformity therewith.
29. Article 10.2 makes it clear that the provision of export credit guarantees is not one of the types of export subsidies listed in Article 9.1 which a Member is given a limited authorisation to apply. Article 10.1 provides that non-listed export subsidies may not be applied in order to circumvent export subsidy commitments. Since export credit guarantees may be "export subsidies not listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9" they may be applied in a manner which "results in or threatens to lead to, circumvention of export subsidy commitments" and thus may be prohibited by Article 10.1. For unscheduled products, since the listed export subsidies cannot be provided, the Appellate Body has found that the transfer of economic resources in the form of non-listed export subsidies (e.g. export credit guarantees) threatens to circumvent the prohibition on giving listed export subsidies to such products.24 Thus, export credit guarantees which qualify as export subsidies may be illegal under Article 10.1 where they might lead to circumvention of the export subsidy commitments.
30. Such a conclusion does not render Article 10.2 devoid of meaning. Article 10.2 is designed to develop disciplines of a broader nature than simply the regulation of export credits and export credit guarantees which operate as an export subsidy, since whether an export credit guarantee is an export subsidy depends on an analysis of the structure of that instrument. One reason why Article 10.2 was necessary is that export credits and export credit guarantees for agricultural commodities are not covered by the OECD Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits (see Article 3d).25 Export credits which conform to this arrangement are considered not to be prohibited export subsidies.26 Consequently, Article 10.2 sets up an obligation to develop disciplines for export credits and export credit guarantees irrespective of the question whether such instruments operate as
21 US First Written Submission, para 5, para. 118. 22 Brazil's First Written Submission, paras. 252-314. 23 The European Communities notes that the US has made this argument in paras. 154-166 of its First Written Submission. 24 Appellate Body Report, United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations" ("United States ­ FSC"), WT/DS108/AB/R, adopted 20 March 2000, para. 150. 25 OECD Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits of 15 October 2002 available at www.oecd.org/dataoecd/52/3/2763846.pdf. 26 See Item K of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies, Annex 1 to the SCM Agreement.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-86
export subsidies. It does not permit any differentiation in treatment between export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes and other non-listed export subsidies.27 31. The European Communities submits, therefore, that Article 10.2 cannot be seen as exempting export credit guarantees granted to agriculture products from WTO disciplines. VI. CONCLUSION 32. By way of conclusion, the European Communities respectfully requests the Panel to find that:  Article 13 Agreement on Agriculture should not be considered an affirmative defence;  The first sentence of the first paragraph of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture should
not be interpreted as a free-standing obligation; and,  Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture does not exempt export credits and export credit
guarantees, which are export subsidies, from the disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture. 33. The European Communities reserves its right to address new arguments, and further develop the arguments set out herein, in its oral statement to the first session of the first substantive meeting.
27 Note that Desta arrives at a similar conclusion: "To the extent that no such agreement [on the provision of export credits etc] has been reached, this provision simply remains to be an agreement to maintain good faith for a planned future negotiation devoid of any substantive additional obligation for some time to come. Until then, there seems to exist no legal distinction in the treatment of these three practices and the other forms of export subsidies not listed under Article 9.1." See Desta, p. 234 op cit. footnote 19.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-87
ANNEX B-9
THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION OF NEW ZEALAND
15 July 2003
CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................88
II. DOMESTIC SUPPORT MEASURES .............................................................................89
A. THE UNITED STATES HAS NO "PEACE CLAUSE" PROTECTION AGAINST ACTIONABLE SUBSIDY CLAIMS RELATED TO SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UPLAND COTTON IN MARKETING YEARS 1999, 2000, 2001 AND 2002 ............................................... 89
1. Step 2 payments, loan deficiency payments, marketing loan gains and cottonseed payments ..........................................................................................................91
2. Marketing loss payments, counter-cyclical payments and crop insurance payments .91 3. Production Flexibility Contract Payments, Direct Payments ........................................93
III. PROHIBITED EXPORT SUBSIDIES ............................................................................95
A. THE UNITED STATES HAS NO "PEACE CLAUSE" PROTECTION AGAINST PROHIBITED AND ACTIONABLE SUBSIDY CLAIMS RELATED TO EXPORT SUBSIDIES95
B. THE UNITED STATES EXPORT SUBSIDIES VIOLATE THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AND THE SCM AGREEMENT............................................................................. 95
1. Step 2 Export Payments ....................................................................................................95 (a) Per se violation of Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture ..............................95 (b) Violation of Article 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement .................................................96 2. Export Credit Guarantee Programme.............................................................................96 (a) Violation of Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture......................................96 (b) Violation of Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement................................................97 3. FSC Replacement Measure...............................................................................................98
IV. PROHIBITED SUBSIDIES ..............................................................................................98
A. STEP 2 DOMESTIC PAYMENTS VIOLATE THE SCM AGREEMENT AND GATT 1994 ARTICLE III:4.................................................................................................................................. 98
V. UNITED STATES REQUEST FOR A PRELIMINARY RULING ON CERTAIN MATTERS ......................................................................................................98
VI. CONCLUSION ..................................................................................................................99

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-88
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01 The present dispute between Brazil and the United States regarding United States subsidies to upland cotton, as well as being important in respect of addressing the rights and obligations of the parties concerned, is also timely. New Zealand hopes this dispute will give greater clarity to the proper interpretation of important WTO disciplines applicable to agricultural trade. Although New Zealand is not a producer or exporter of cotton, New Zealand has a systemic interest in ensuring the continued integrity of these disciplines and has therefore joined this dispute as a third party.
1.02 New Zealand also acknowledges the importance of the cotton sector for a number of developing countries. In this regard New Zealand recalls the recent joint proposal made in the context of the Doha Development Agenda negotiations by Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali entitled `Poverty Reduction: Sectoral initiative in favour of cotton'.1 The joint proposal calls for recognition of the strategic nature of cotton for development and poverty reduction in many least developed countries and for the complete phasing out of support measures for the production and export of cotton. As the paper points out, the efforts of cotton producers in West and Central African countries towards liberalisation and competitiveness are virtually nullified by the fact that certain WTO Members continue to apply support measures to cotton that distort global markets.
1.03 The joint proposal outlines the damage caused by the very high levels of support given to cotton producers in certain WTO Member countries, including artificially increasing supply in international markets and bringing down export prices. This is the very same damage that Brazil is attempting to address through this dispute.
1.04 With respect to WTO disciplines, one of the biggest achievements of the Uruguay Round was the recognition that domestic support policies were instrumental in determining the overall nature of international agricultural trade. For the first time specific disciplines were placed on the ability of Members to use domestic support programmes in an unfettered manner. Trade-distorting or production-distorting domestic support measures became subject to reduction commitments.
1.05 New Zealand is concerned to ensure trade-distorting or "amber box" measures cannot be used contrary to the "peace clause" in a manner that negatively affects other Members.
1.06 At the same time as addressing trade-distorting support, Members recognized that some forms of domestic support were less trade-distorting than others and that certain types of programmes should continue to play a role in Members' policy "tool box". Accordingly the "green box", as set out in Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture, was designed to allow Members to pursue agricultural objectives such as the provision of general services, disaster relief, food security and structural adjustment assistance and to support incomes as long as that was done in a way totally "decoupled" from production. The "green box" therefore allows WTO Members to meet legitimate non-trade objectives in a non-trade distorting way.
1.07 Strict eligibility criteria have been set down in Articles 6 and 7 and Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture to ensure that only genuine non-trade distorting measures escape reduction commitments, including explicit inclusion of the "fundamental requirement" that such measures "have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production".2
1.08 The fact that basic and policy-specific criteria were included in the Agreement on Agriculture shows Members recognised the potential for the "green box" to be abused and domestic support commitments circumvented. In New Zealand's view it is critical that the integrity of the disciplines
1 TN/AG/GEN/4 2 Agreement on Agriculture Annex 2, paragraph 1.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-89
on "green box" measures are not weakened or their legitimate purpose undermined through the inclusion of measures that fail to meet the strict requirements of Annex 2, including the fundamental criterion that such measures are non-trade or production distorting. Accordingly one of New Zealand's key objectives in joining this dispute as a third party is to ensure that the "green box" cannot be used to circumvent commitments on trade-distorting measures.
1.09 Under the Uruguay Round Members also agreed to a "peace clause" (Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture). Of particular relevance to this dispute is Members' agreement that provided non-"green box" measures meet the requirements of the Agreement on Agriculture and the levels of support did not exceed 1992 levels, such measures would be exempt during the implementation period of the Agreement from certain actions that would otherwise be available to Members under the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (the "SCM Agreement") and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (the "GATT 1994"). "Peace clause" protection was also extended to export subsidies conforming with the requirements of the Agreement on Agriculture.
1.10 Accordingly, New Zealand is also concerned to ensure that Members are able to utilise their rights under the SCM Agreement and GATT 1994 to take action in respect of domestic support measures and export subsidies where the requirements of the "peace clause" have not been respected.
1.11 New Zealand believes that the arguments put forward by Brazil3 show that the "peace clause" has not been respected in relation to domestic support and export subsidies provided by the United States to upland cotton in the marketing years ("MY") 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, and that accordingly Brazil is entitled to bring actionable and prohibited subsidy claims against the United States under the GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement.
1.12 This submission, as requested by the Panel4, primarily addresses issues raised in the submissions of Brazil and the United States relating to the substantive interpretation of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture. As further elaborated in this submission New Zealand supports the claims made by Brazil. New Zealand has had only limited time to consider the First Written Submission of the United States5 and therefore addresses only some of the issues raised therein. In particular New Zealand addresses, at the end of this submission,6 the request by the United States for a Preliminary Ruling on certain matters.7 New Zealand looks forward to the next phase of the case which will examine Brazil's claims under Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of the GATT 1994.
II. DOMESTIC SUPPORT MEASURES
A. THE UNITED STATES HAS NO "PEACE CLAUSE" PROTECTION AGAINST ACTIONABLE SUBSIDY CLAIMS RELATED TO SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UPLAND COTTON IN MARKETING YEARS 1999, 2000, 2001 AND 2002
2.01 New Zealand agrees with Brazil that Members may assert a "peace clause" defence under Agreement on Agriculture Article 13(b)(ii) only if the total quantity of support granted through all
3 Brazil's First Submission to the Panel Regarding the "Peace Clause" and Non-"Peace Clause" Related Claims, 24 June 2003 ("First Written Submission of Brazil").
4 Panel communication to the Parties, 20 June 2003. 5 First Written Submission of the United States of America, July 11 2003 ("First Written Submission of the United States"). 6 Para 5.01-5.02. 7 First Written Submission of the United States, Pt V.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-90
non-"green box" domestic support measures to a specific commodity does not exceed the quantity of non-green box domestic support decided to be granted in MY 1992.
2.02 New Zealand endorses the process outlined by Brazil8 for determining whether the United States can claim peace clause protection against serious prejudice claims under SCM Agreement Articles 5(c) and 6.3 and GATT 1994 Article XVI.1.
2.03 Specifically New Zealand agrees that the first step is to identify and quantify all the United States non-"green box" support for the production of upland cotton in MY 1992. The second step is to identify and quantify all non-"green box" United States payments that grant support to upland cotton in MY 1999, 2000, 2001 and to provide estimates for MY 2002. The final step is to determine whether United States support to upland cotton in MY 1999-2002 exceeded its 1992 support to upland cotton.
2.04 The information provided by Brazil9 demonstrates that the level of domestic support for upland cotton in each of those marketing years did in fact exceed the level decided during the 1992 marketing year and therefore such domestic support measures may be subject to claims based on GATT 1994 Article XVI or SCM Agreement Articles 5 and 6.
2.05 New Zealand notes that the United States argues that the relevant concept for the comparison required by Article 13(b)(ii) is only the `per pound' rate of support set by the relevant domestic support measures.10 Using this concept the United States argues that the support currently granted to upland cotton ($0.52 per pound) does not exceed that granted to upland cotton in the 1992 marketing year ($0.729 per pound).11
2.06 New Zealand agrees that the measures concerned (the loan rate) contribute to the effect of guaranteeing a producer price at a specified rate per pound of production and that the per pound rate of guaranteed price for producers is one of the relevant factors in making the comparison required by Article 13(b)(ii). However New Zealand does not agree that the use of the word "decided" in Article 13(b)(ii) was intended to be, or should be, construed to mean that the per pound rate of guaranteed price to producers of a commodity is the only factor to be considered in determining the amount of support granted. Indeed, New Zealand sees no support for such an approach in either the specific wording of Article 13(b)(ii) or in its object and purpose.
2.07 New Zealand considers that the comparison must take into account the totality of payments to upland cotton producers in order to reflect the true nature of the support that is being granted to a producer ­ the United States approach ignores this objective. For example, in relation to support granted to United States producers of upland cotton, Step 2 payments and crop insurance payments are also factors which affect farmers production decisions as is, of course, the "counter-cyclical" payments programme that effectively guarantees a price of $0.724 per pound. Therefore even under the United States assumption that the use of a "rate" is key, the story is very different from that claimed by the United States.
2.08 Further, New Zealand considers that an evaluation of budgetary payments is also essential in order to see the real effects of the support programmes. Focussing solely on a rate per pound ignores the actual levels of domestic support represented by budgetary outlays that must be granted in order to maintain those rates and the other payments received.
8 First Written Submission of Brazil, para 123. 9 Ibid, para 124. 10 First Written Submission of the United States, paras 94 and 105. 11 Ibid, para 125.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-91
2.09 In this respect New Zealand recalls that the rationale behind the proviso in Article 13(b)(ii) that such measures not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year is to create an upper limit in the level of trade or production distortion caused by such measures. The clear overarching intention of WTO Members in the negotiation of the Agreement on Agriculture was that henceforth such distortions would be reduced, consistent with the long term objective of "correcting and preventing restrictions and distortions in world agriculture markets".12 Accordingly it would be inconsistent with the object and purpose of the Agreement, and Article 13(b)(ii) specifically, to adopt an interpretation that artificially limits consideration of the scope of support granted to that of a `per pound rate' of guaranteed price to a producer rather than the totality of the support granted that creates the trade and production distortions.
2.10 In that respect the fact that United States budgetary outlays have increased from their 1992 levels is not coincidental. Such increases are due, at least in part, to the production and market distorting effects of the United States measures that have lead to higher export levels of upland cotton from the United States that have in turn pushed world market prices for cotton down. In essence, the level of trade distortion has increased as the gap between the price farmers expect to receive and the world price has increased. Looking at it the other way around, had the United States maintained the 1992 level of support its producers would be far more aware of the realities of the world market for cotton and have less incentive to add further to the trade distortion.
1. Step 2 payments, loan deficiency payments, marketing loan gains and cottonseed payments
2.11 These payments are clearly non-"green box" support, as implied by the notification by the United States to the WTO Committee on Agriculture for MY 1999.13 As Brazil points out, the structure of most of these programmes is substantially the same in MY 2000-2001 and under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (the "2002 FSRI Act")14 as it was in MY 1999. New Zealand considers that these payments should continue to be treated as non-"green box" support to upland cotton and must therefore be used in calculating the total quantity of support granted to upland cotton in MY 1999-2002.
2. Marketing loss payments, counter-cyclical payments and crop insurance payments
2.12 The United States has notified crop insurance payments and marketing loss assistance payments as "amber box" domestic support.15 Brazil notes that the 2002 FSRI Act institutionalised marketing loss assistance payments with a new program of "counter-cyclical" payments ("CCP").16
2.13 New Zealand notes that Brazil argues that CCP subsidies do not meet the criteria set out in Agreement on Agriculture Annex 2, specifically paragraphs 6(b) and (c), and fail to meet the fundamental requirement that "green box" measures "have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production".
2.14 Brazil argues that the CCP programme is not a "green box" measure because payments are not based on prices of upland cotton that took place in a prior base period but are linked to present prices for the product concerned, contrary to the requirements of Annex 2 paragraph 6(c).17
12 Preambular paragraph 3 of the Agreement on Agriculture. 13 G/AG/N/USA/43, Exhibit BRA-47. 14 Exhibit BRA-29. 15G/AG/N/USA/43 page 37. Exhibit BRA-47. 16 First Written Submission of Brazil, para 62. 17 Ibid, para 197.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-92
2.15 Paragraph 6(c) of Annex 2 makes it clear that the amount of decoupled income support payments "shall not be related to, or based on, the prices, domestic or international, applying to any production undertaken in any year after the base period." As Brazil notes, the amount of the payment under the CCP programme varies with fluctuations in the national average market price, that is, it is linked to a current price. Accordingly, in New Zealand's view this is sufficient to support a finding by the Panel that the CCP programme involves payments that are not "green box" support measures in accordance with Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture and must therefore be used in calculating the total quantity of domestic support granted to upland cotton for MY 2002. Indeed, the United States endorses this approach.18
2.16 New Zealand notes, however, that the United States has argued that the term "support to a specific commodity" used in Article 13(b)(ii) should be interpreted to mean "product-specific support".19 On this basis the United States argues that the CCP programme and crop insurance programme should be excluded from the scope of support granted to upland cotton for the purposes of Article 13(b)(ii). 20
2.17 While New Zealand notes that the United States has notified marketing loss assistance and crop insurance (and presumably will notify CCP payments) as non-product specific domestic support,21 it is clear from discussion in the WTO Committee on Agriculture that Members, including New Zealand, have questioned whether that is appropriate.22
2.18 The United States asserts that CCP payments are non-product specific because they are not coupled to current production of any specific commodity but rather are based on historical fixed base acreage and yields.23 However in New Zealand's view Brazil has brought forward significant evidence of a strong linkage between the CCP payments and production of upland cotton, such that farmers with upland cotton base acreage are likely to continue to produce upland cotton.
2.19 In particular Brazil points out that most cotton farmers have made considerable investments in cotton-specific equipment, or farm in locations where cotton is the most productive crop, and are therefore more likely to continue to produce cotton.24 The linkage between the receipt of CCP payments and production of cotton is further reinforced by the CCP payments being explicitly calculated on the basis of current cotton prices.
2.20 Brazil also points out that CCP payments create incentives for farmers with upland cotton base acreage to maintain upland cotton production.25 In fact under the CCP programme the only way a farmer can guarantee a particular outcome is to continue to grow the same crop, otherwise the farmer runs the risk of missing out. For example, if he or she chooses to produce wheat and cotton prices are high enough that no CCP payment is made but wheat prices fall, the farmer will make a loss they would not have made had they stayed with cotton production.
2.21 Irrespective of whether or not these payments are notified as product-specific or not, they must still be considered "support granted to a specific commodity" for the purposes of Article 13(b)(ii). There is no foundation for the assertion by the United States that "support granted to a specific commodity" should be read as meaning "product-specific support". Given the detailed listing
18 First Written Submission of the United States, para 118. 19 Ibid, para 78. 20 Ibid, para 122. 21 G/AG/N/USA/43, Exhibit BRA-47. 22 See for example, G/AG/R/34 `Summary report of the meeting held on 27 March 2003' at page 32. 23 First Written Submission of the United States, para 115. 24 First Written Submission of Brazil, para 207. 25 Ibid, para 211.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-93
of domestic support measures potentially exempt in the chapeau to Article 13(b)(ii) itself, had Members intended to exclude non-product specific support they would surely have said so. Further, had they meant that "support granted to a specific commodity" was to be read as "product specific" support they would have said so ­ the phrase was used at least five times elsewhere in the Agreement.
2.22 Rather, the reference to support to a "specific commodity" in Article 13(b)(ii) was used to distinguish the nature of the "peace clause" from the domestic support commitments more generally which are on a "Total" (i.e. over all agriculture) Aggregate Measurement of Support ("AMS") basis. Only if support increases for a particular product can it be open to challenge under the SCM Agreement. Without such clarification "peace clause" protection could potentially be lost for any agricultural product if Total AMS increases, even though support to that specific product had not increased. This would have unpredictable results for individual products and cannot have been the intended effect of the "peace clause".
2.23 Nothing in Article 6 suggests that treating product-specific and non-product specific support separately under Article 13 is warranted. New Zealand sees no basis on which to suggest that support to a specific commodity should be excluded simply because other commodities may receive similar support. Support provided through generally available programmes (which, New Zealand notes, the marketing loss assistance programme and now the CCP programme are not) is still support received for the individual products. Taking the United States argument to its logical extreme would effectively render all agricultural support non-product specific so long as the same kind of support was being provided to more than one product.
2.24 Accordingly, New Zealand considers that the United States incorrectly categorises CCP payments as non-product specific support. But whether they are product-specific or non-product specific is, in fact, irrelevant for the purposes of Article 13(b)(ii) as there is no basis upon which to read such a limitation on the kinds of domestic support to be considered within the meaning of that provision. Instead, the portion of any non-product specific support granted to a specific commodity, in this case to upland cotton, must be included in the comparative analysis required by Article 13(b)(ii). In this respect New Zealand notes that what Brazil is proposing is no more than what the United States has done in relation to export credits in its First Written Submission where it has allocated export credit administrative costs to the specific product of upland cotton.26
2.25 The same arguments can be made with respect to the payments under the crop insurance programmes.
3. Production Flexibility Contract Payments, Direct Payments
2.26 In New Zealand's view one important aspect of the "Direct Payments" ("DP") programme rules out inclusion of those payments in the "green box", specifically the ability of farmers to update the base acreage used for calculation of DP payments.27 As outlined by Brazil, the DP programme is the successor to the Production Flexibility Contract Payments ("PFC") programme and to permit an updating of the `fixed' base period by changing the name of the PFC programme to a DP program would render the provisions of paragraph 6(a) and (b) of Agreement on Agriculture Annex 2 a nullity.28
2.27 The option for farmers to update base acreage under the 2002 FSRI Act directly violates the requirement under Annex 2 paragraph 6 that decoupled income support be determined in relation to a
26 First Written Submission of the United States, para 175. 27 First Written Submission of Brazil, para 52; Exhibit BRA-35. 28 Ibid, para 182.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-94
"defined and fixed base period". New Zealand agrees with Brazil's interpretation that paragraph 6(a) and (b) contemplates only one base period that is fixed and unchanging.
2.28 As Brazil points out, permitting the updating of the base period to capture additional payment acreage (as one third of all United States farms with eligible acreage opted to do)29 would link increased recent volumes of production with the amount of current payments.30 Brazil is also correct to state that this is contrary to the object and purpose of "de-coupled income support", which is to break the link between production and the amount of support and thereby ensure that such measures "have no, or at most minimal" effects on production. As the evidence brought forward by Brazil shows, an expectation of being able to update base acreage and payment yields influences production in a number of ways,31 particularly as, having had one opportunity to update their base acreage, farmers could reasonably expect further opportunities to do so in the future.
2.29 In New Zealand's view the updating of base acreage for the DP programme alone is sufficient to exclude it from the scope of permitted "green box" measures as set out in Annex 2. Instead such payments are "amber box" measures that, in accordance with Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture, are domestic support to upland cotton in MY 2002.
2.30 Brazil has also argued that the PFC and DP programmes have more than a minimal effect on production and trade and therefore fail to meet the "fundamental requirement" of "green box" domestic support measures.
2.31 New Zealand agrees with Brazil's interpretation that the "fundamental requirement" that "green box" domestic support measures "have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production" means that the quantity or level of production or trade distorting effects need only be very small to trigger denial of "green box" status under Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture.32 The language of paragraph 1 of Annex 2 makes it clear that this fundamental requirement and the other criteria set out in Annex 2 are to be strictly applied to any measures in order to obtain exemption from reduction commitments.
2.32 The trade-distorting effects or effects on production of any domestic support measure must be determined on a case-by-case basis, looking at the specific circumstances and characteristics of each particular measure. Brazil has provided comprehensive information regarding the effects of the PFC and DP programmes to enable the Panel to determine whether those payments have even very minimal production or trade distorting effects and thus fail to meet the "fundamental requirement" for "green box" measures as provided in Agreement on Agriculture Annex 2.
2.33 New Zealand notes that the United States provides no response to any of Brazil's arguments regarding the PFC/DP programme and the level of production distortion it causes other than to claim that changing the name of the programme indemnifies it from consideration. Accordingly Brazil's arguments should stand.
29 Ibid, para 181. 30 Ibid, para 179. 31 Ibid, paras 185 ­ 190. 32 Ibid, para 165.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-95
III. PROHIBITED EXPORT SUBSIDIES
A. THE UNITED STATES HAS NO "PEACE CLAUSE" PROTECTION AGAINST PROHIBITED AND ACTIONABLE SUBSIDY CLAIMS RELATED TO EXPORT SUBSIDIES
3.01 New Zealand supports the arguments made by Brazil that the three types of export subsidies applied to upland cotton and other commodities by the United States (the Step 2 Export Programme, the Export Credit Guarantee Programme, and the FSC Replacement Programme) violate Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture and therefore fail to meet the requirement of conformity with Part V of the Agreement, with the result that such subsidies are not exempt from claims by Brazil based on Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement.
B. THE UNITED STATES EXPORT SUBSIDIES VIOLATE THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE AND THE SCM AGREEMENT
1. Step 2 Export Payments
(a) Per se violation of Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture
3.02 As outlined by Brazil,33 Step 2 export payments clearly fall within the description of an export subsidy set out in Article 9.1(a) of the Agreement on Agriculture in that it is a direct subsidy provided by the United States government to exporters of upland cotton contingent upon export.
3.03 Even if the Panel were to find that Step 2 export payments did not fall within the description set out in Article 9.1(a) of the Agreement on Agriculture, the Appellate Body has determined, as Brazil notes, that the effect of Article 10.1 is that a Member can only provide export subsidies in conformity with the Agreement on Agriculture if it has scheduled export subsidy reduction commitment levels for the agricultural product concerned.34 The use of any other type of export subsidy will "at the very least" threaten circumvention of subsidy reduction commitments within the meaning of Article 10.1.
3.04 Accordingly New Zealand agrees with Brazil that the Step 2 export payments violate per se Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture
3.05 New Zealand notes that the United States has argued that Step 2 export payments are not export subsidies as defined by Article 9.1(a) and 10 of the Agreement on Agriculture (and Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement) because the Step 2 payments are available to domestic users as well as exporters of upland cotton.35 As the Appellate Body in US-FSC Recourse to Article 21.536 recognised, the fact that a scheme allows for payments to be made otherwise than contingently on export does not diminish the export contingency of those that are.
3.06 In US-FSC Recourse to Article 21.5 the United States argued that a measure that provided tax exclusion for exported products, but also allowed tax exclusion to be obtained without exportation, could not be considered to be `contingent upon export performance'. The Appellate Body disagreed.
33 Ibid, paras 238-243. 34 Report of the Appellate Body, United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations", WT/DS108/AB/R ("US-FSC"), para 150-152; First Written Submission of Brazil, para 237. 35 First Written Submission of the United States, para 132. 36 Report of the Appellate Body, United States ­ Tax Treatment for "Foreign Sales Corporations" Recourse to Article 21.5 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding by the European Communities, WT/DS108/AB/RW ("US-FSC Recourse to Article 21.5").

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-96
3.07 The Appellate Body said that the measure "contemplates two different factual situations"; where property is produced within the United States and held for use outside the United States, and where property is produced outside the United States and held for use outside the United States. The Appellate Body said that "the fact that the subsidies granted in the second set of circumstances might not be export contingent does not dissolve the export contingency arising in the first set of circumstances".37
3.08 New Zealand considers that the fact that payments are also able to be made to domestic users of upland cotton does not `dissolve' the export contingency of the payments that are made to exporters. Payments to eligible exporters of upland cotton are dependent on proof of export being provided and are therefore contingent on export performance.
3.09 Accordingly Step 2 export payments breach the obligation of the United States under Article 3.3 not to provide such subsidies in respect of any agricultural product that it has not specified in Section II of Part IV of its Schedule and therefore violates per se the undertaking by the United States in Article 8 not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with the Agreement on Agriculture.
(b) Violation of Article 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement
3.10 New Zealand supports Brazil's conclusion that the Step 2 export payments meet the requirements of a subsidy under Article 1.1(a)(1)(i) and Article 1.1(a)(2) of the SCM Agreement and are contingent upon export within the meaning of Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement.
3.11 Accordingly if the Panel finds, as New Zealand believes it should, that Step 2 export payments constitute per se prohibited subsidies under Article 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement, the Panel is required to recommend under Article 4.7 of the SCM Agreement that the United States withdraw the programme without delay. New Zealand therefore supports Brazil's request that the Panel expressly make such a recommendation.
2. Export Credit Guarantee Programme
(a) Violation of Articles 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture
3.12 New Zealand supports Brazil's arguments that the export credit guarantee programme provides export subsidies that can lead to, or threaten to lead to, circumvention of export subsidy commitments under Article 10.1. As established by the Appellate Body in US-FSC,38 Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture is violated where an export subsidy is available for unscheduled agricultural products for which no reduction commitments have been made, as, "at the very least", this threatens to lead to circumvention of export subsidy commitments.
3.13 It is evident that Members considered that export credit programmes could provide export subsidies through the specific reference to such programmes in Agreement on Agriculture Article 10.2. While not all government export credit programmes necessarily provide export subsidies, it is clear that the United States programme does so in both of the ways demonstrated by Brazil (ie because it clearly falls within Item j of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies in Annex I of the SCM Agreement39 or is otherwise an export subsidy as defined in Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of the
37 Ibid, para 119. 38 Report of the Appellate Body, US-FSC, para 150-152. 39 First Written Submission of Brazil, paras 272-286.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-97
SCM Agreement).40 The export credit scheme is therefore a subsidy contingent on export in the context of Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
3.14 New Zealand notes that the United States has argued that "the plain words of Article 10.2 (of the Agreement on Agriculture) indicate that the export credit guarantee programs are not subject in any way to the export subsidy disciplines of that Agreement."41 New Zealand disagrees with this assertion. The heading of Article 10 is `Prevention of circumvention of export subsidy commitments' and the inclusion of reference to export credits under that Article clearly reflects Members' concern that export credits can provide export subsidies.
3.15 Nor does Article 10.2 in any way suggest that it provides an exception from the disciplines of Article 10.1. New Zealand agrees with the United States that Article 10.2 does not say "in addition to the export subsidy commitments" of the Agreement.42 That is because it did not have to, coming as it does directly after the general prohibition against circumvention in Article 10.1. While Article 10.1 currently provides the only discipline on the use of export credits, it is expected that the work envisaged in Article 10.2 will elaborate further and more specific disciplines that will presumably make identification of the extent to which such export credit programmes constitute export subsidies more straightforward. However it is incorrect to assume that there is a vacuum in the meantime. Item j of the Illustrative List of the SCM Agreement clearly already provides guidance on when export credit guarantee or insurance programmes are to be considered to be `export subsidies' and beyond this the general definition in Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement also applies. While the provisions of Item j do not apply to agricultural products mutatis mutandis there is no reason to believe that the guidance there and elsewhere in the SCM Agreement is not appropriate for analyses under the Agreement on Agriculture.
3.16 Nor should the application of the disciplines in the Agreement on Agriculture in the meantime obviate the need for continued negotiations as envisaged by Article 10.2, as New Zealand hopes that those negotiations will result in clearer and more specific rules. Indeed it may even be that the result of the negotiations is that an export credit programme that is considered to be an export subsidy under the current, more generally applicable rules, will be deemed not to be an export subsidy in the future. However in that respect New Zealand notes, for example, that the United States Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103) provides for a repayment term of between 3 and 10 years43, terms clearly well outside the scope of disciplines to govern the use of export credit guarantee programmes currently being considered in the negotiations.
(b) Violation of Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement
3.17 As export credits are not in conformity with Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture and thus do not benefit from protection under the "peace clause", they can equally be examined under the SCM Agreement. If the Panel finds, as New Zealand believes it should, that export credit guarantee payments are prohibited subsidies under Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, the Panel is required to recommend under Article 4.7 of the SCM Agreement that the United States withdraw the payments without delay. New Zealand therefore supports Brazil's request that the Panel expressly make such a recommendation.
40 Ibid, paras 287-293. 41 First Written Submission of the United States, para 164. 42 Ibid. 43 Ibid, para 151.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-98
3. FSC Replacement Measure
3.18 New Zealand supports the claims made by Brazil,44 based on the findings already made by the Appellate Body in US-FSC Recourse to Article 21.5, that the tax cuts under the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000 threaten to circumvent United States export subsidy commitments within the meaning of Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture and therefore cannot be exempt from actions under the SCM Agreement under Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture. In addition the Appellate Body found that there was a prohibited subsidy under Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement.
3.19 Accordingly if the Panel finds, as New Zealand believes it should, that the tax cuts under the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000 are prohibited subsidies under Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, the Panel is required to recommend under Article 4.7 of the SCM Agreement that the United States withdraw the subsidies without delay. New Zealand therefore supports Brazil's request that the Panel expressly make such a recommendation.
IV. PROHIBITED SUBSIDIES
A. STEP 2 DOMESTIC PAYMENTS VIOLATE THE SCM AGREEMENT AND GATT ARTICLE III:4
4.01 New Zealand supports Brazil's argument that the "peace clause" provides no immunity for "amber box" subsidies from prohibited subsidy claims under Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement.45 New Zealand believes that Brazil has demonstrated that Step 2 domestic payments are a prohibited subsidy under Article 3.1(b) in that the payments are contingent on the use of domestic over imported upland cotton. On that basis they also violate Article III.4 of GATT 1994.
4.02 Accordingly if the Panel finds, as New Zealand believes it should, that Step 2 domestic payments violate per se Article 3.2 of the SCM Agreement, the Panel is required to recommend under Article 4.7 of the SCM Agreement that the United States withdraw the payments without delay. New Zealand therefore supports Brazil's request that the Panel expressly make such a recommendation.
V. UNITED STATES REQUEST FOR A PRELIMINARY RULING ON CERTAIN MATTERS
5.01 New Zealand rejects the arguments of the United States that measures no longer in effect are not within the Panel's terms of reference.46 Such measures should be within the scope of the Panel's consideration, particularly when the programmes in question have effectively only been renamed and in fact continue in a slightly different form. In addition, the nature of serious prejudice claims may necessitate consideration of data beyond a single year and may in fact require a Panel to consider trends over a number of years. Accordingly New Zealand rejects the United States claim that market loss assistance payments and PFC payments should be excluded from the Panel's consideration of Brazil's claims.
5.02 New Zealand also considers that the Panel should reject the United States request that that Panel rule that export credit guarantee measures relating to eligible United States agricultural commodities (other than upland cotton) are not within its terms of reference.47 While New Zealand did not participate in the consultations, in New Zealand's view Brazil had little choice but to look at a broader commodity coverage in relation to export credits because the information specific to upland
44 First Written Submission of Brazil, paras 315-330. 45 First Written Submission of Brazil, para 332. 46 First Written Submission of the United States, paras 207-211. 47 Ibid, paras 191-206.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-99
cotton alone was not available. To prevent Brazil from doing so would unjustly allow a lack of transparency to preclude scrutiny of measures by Members taking disputes, especially where the information at a higher level of aggregation showed there was clearly a case to answer in respect of a particular measure, in this instance export credits. While more time is needed to analyse the information brought forward by the United States (which does not appear to be sourced from publicly available documents), at this stage of the Panel's consideration of Brazil's claims, New Zealand considers that the Panel should not make the ruling requested by the United States.
VI. CONCLUSION
6.01 In conclusion, New Zealand believes that Brazil had demonstrated that the "peace clause" has not been respected in relation to domestic support and export subsidies provided by the United States to upland cotton in the marketing years 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, and that accordingly Brazil is entitled to bring actionable and prohibited subsidy claims against the United States under the GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement. New Zealand looks forward to the next phase of the case which will examine Brazil's claims under Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of the GATT 1994.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-100
ANNEX B-10
THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION BY PARAGUAY
INTRODUCTION
1. Paraguay is grateful for the opportunity to express its views on the matter at issue in this dispute.
2. Because Paraguay is a firm believer in a fair system of international trade, it feels that it should explain its position on this issue which is of particular interest to its economy.
Applicable rules
3. In the Marrakesh Ministerial Declaration of April 1994 itself, Ministers affirmed that the establishment of the WTO ushered in a new era of global economic cooperation, reflecting the widespread desire to operate in a fairer and more open multilateral trading system for the benefit and welfare of their peoples, and expressed their determination to resist protectionist pressures of all kinds as well as their belief that the strengthened rules achieved in the Uruguay Round would lead to a progressively more open world trading environment.
4. Moreover, in October 2002, on the occasion of the meeting of the International Cotton Advisory Committee, governments observed the critical situation that the world cotton industry was going through and its link to subsidies, suggesting the establishment of a schedule for the elimination of measures that distorted world production and trade in cotton, and stressing the need to submit complaints before the WTO for violation of the applicable rules.
5. Paraguay considers that the subsidies and support granted by the United States to its cotton production are inconsistent with the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Agreement on Agriculture and the rules and principles of the GATT 1994, and that for the purposes of this dispute it is therefore essential to take account of WTO legislation, which was carefully drafted to avoid causing distortions in international trade and prejudice to developing countries such as Paraguay.
6. WTO jurisprudence and the principles of interpretation of international law applied to the various cases suggests that the applicable rules should be read cumulatively, taking account of all elements applied to the case in order to support the system as an integrated whole.
7. Paraguay considers Brazil's complaint and the legal justifications invoked with respect to the inconsistency of the United States' laws, regulations and administrative procedures with the applicable WTO rules to be fully consistent with the law.
PEACE CLAUSE
8. With respect to the applicability of Article 13(b)(ii) concerning domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of the Agreement including direct payments that conform to the requirements to paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, Paraguay considers they shall be exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-101
1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of Subsidies Agreement, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year.
9. This implies that it is not limited or confined to specific products. Thus, it can be concluded that the United States does not enjoy protection from actions relating to subsidies using 1999, 2001 and 2002 as a basis, as Brazil duly proved.
10. In interpreting the Peace Clause, account must be taken of the serious prejudice that Member economies could suffer, and an assessment made of the overall significance of all of the agreements relating to the case.
11. Paraguay does not grant subsidies, either under the Subsidies Agreement or under the Agreement on Agriculture. Paraguay did notify the Committee on Agriculture, on 22 July 2002, of its domestic support commitments for 2000 and 2001 (G/AG/N/PRY/10, supporting table DS.1 and related supporting tables) as required under the Agreement on Agriculture and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.
12. Consequently, as long as discriminatory support not provided for under WTO Agreement on Agriculture or the WTO Agreement on Subsidies on Countervailing Measures continues to be granted, Paraguay will have no choice but to file complaints with the relevant bodies.
Inconsistency with the Agreement on Agriculture
13. The Step 2 programme introduced by the United States to stimulate exports and the competitiveness of its products on the international market is inconsistent with Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
14. Article 3 of the Agreement on Agriculture refers to the incorporation of concessions and commitments. Paragraph 3 thereof stipulates that:
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2(b) and 4 of Article 9 of this Agreement, a Member shall not provide export subsidies listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9 in respect of the agricultural products or groups of products specified in Section II of Part IV of its Schedule in excess of the budgetary outlay and quantity commitment levels specified therein and shall not provide such subsidies in respect of any agricultural product not specified in that Section of its Schedule.
15. The above paragraph enables Members to provide the subsidies listed in Article 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture subject to fulfilment of the commitments assumed.
16. Similarly, Article 8 of the said Agreement regulates export competition commitments, stipulating that:
Each Member undertakes not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement and the commitments as specified in that Member's Schedule.
17. For the above reasons, and because it does not consider the provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture to have been complied with, Paraguay believes that the export subsidies granted by the United States to its cotton industry are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-102
Inconsistency with the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
18. The agricultural subsidies cause "serious prejudice" to the domestic industry of other Members under Articles 5 and 6 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.
19. The introductory paragraph of part III, Article 5 of the said Agreement provides that no Member should cause, through the use of any subsidy ­ specific and not exempted under the Agreement ­ adverse effects to the interests of other Members, more specifically, as categorically stated in the indents that follow, (a) injury to the domestic industry of another Member and (c) serious prejudice to the interests of another Member.
20. Article 6 specifically refers to cases in which "serious prejudice" is deemed to exist in the sense of paragraph (c) of Article 5.
Effects of agricultural subsidies
21. Agricultural subsidies have effects on world trade, and measures such as those applied by the United States have a significant impact on developing countries like Paraguay.
22. Indeed, Paraguay is all the more affected by the said measures in that it is precisely cotton production that provides sustenance for the most needy segments of the population.
23. Paraguay has a total population of approximately 5,300,000, of which more than 500,000 are linked to cotton production. If we add the related industries and activities, the figure reaches an estimated 1,500,000, or approximately 30 per cent of the country's total population.
24. Any slump in the cotton trade causes an exodus of rural population towards the urban areas which do not offer any relief or solution, and this further undermines the economic situation of a country that depends on its agriculture.
25. As regards exports, in 1991, the foreign exchange revenue generated by sales of cotton and byproducts thereof reached US$318,912,000, approximately 43 per cent of the total for the country's exports that year. At the time, a total of 299,259 farms, 190,000 were cultivating cotton.
26. By 2001, the figures had changed considerably. Export revenue had fallen to US$90,505,000, a 72 per cent drop in the value of exports. The number of farms producing cotton decreased to about 90,000, representing a 52 per cent decrease in farms, employment and small farmer income. In other words, the impoverishment was real.
27. Regarding international cotton fibre prices, in 1991, the price per ton of Paraguayan type fibre was quoted on the New York Exchange at US$1,624, while in 2001, it was quoted at US$934.
28. In Paraguay, some 60 per cent of cotton is produced on farms of less than 10 hectares, making it the main or only source of income for small farmers and the main source of employment for the rural workforce in the most disadvantaged segment of society where access to capital and technology is more restricted and the leading socio-economic welfare indicators are lower than anywhere else.
CONCLUSION
29. Paraguay is a small economy. It is a land-locked country that has no oil, gas, gold or other natural resources of a kind that could make it of particular interest to the developed countries. The Paraguayan economy is essentially based on agricultural production, including the production and sale of cotton.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-103
30. Paraguay therefore considers that the measures adopted by the United States cause serious prejudice to world trade, affecting Paraguay in particular, and that the necessary steps should be taken to eliminate the adverse effects and seek to achieve a balance in world trade.
31. Paraguay respectfully requests the Panel to conclude that the measure applied by the United States is inconsistent with its WTO obligations under the various provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture, the GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-104
ANNEX B-11
THIRD PARTY SUBMISSION OF THE SEPARATE CUSTOMS TERRITORY OF TAIWAN, PENGHU, KINMEN AND MATSU.
15 July 2003
1. In its fax of 28 May 2003 to the parties to this dispute, the Panel poses questions regarding the correct interpretation of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture and the on the issue of preliminary rulings. As the Panel's questions raise an important point of law and the Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu has a systemic interest in the proper interpretation and operation of these and other relevant provisions involved in the procedures, we would like to submit our views on the following aspects:
I. THE BURDEN OF PROOF REQUIRED BY ARTICLE 13 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE (THE "PEACE CLAUSE"), AND
II. THE QUESTION OF PRELIMINARY RULINGS.
I. BURDEN OF PROOF IN THE "PEACE CLAUSE"
2. In attempting to arrive at a proper interpretation of the burden of proof as provided in Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, we suggest comparing different types of exemptions, defences, or carving-out under different agreements.
3. It could happen that a matter is brought under an agreement not covered by the DSU. Since Article 1 of the DSU provides that the DSU shall apply to disputes brought pursuant to the consultation and dispute settlement provisions of the agreements listed in Appendix 1 to the DSU and the WTO Agreement, it follows that consultation or dispute arising from or in connection with any non-covered agreement would not be within the scope of the dispute settlement procedures under the DSU. Thus, if a Member brings a complaint alleging a breach of certain international environmental treaties, for example, the complaining party would bear the burden to prove that the issue in dispute falls within the purview of the DSB.
4. It could also be that a matter is specifically excluded from the dispute settlement procedures by certain relevant agreements. A typical example of this would be the provision in Article 6 of the TRIPS agreement, which provides that "for the purposes of dispute settlement under this Agreement, subject to the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 nothing in this Agreement shall be used to address the issue of the exhaustion of intellectual property rights". It is apparent that as long as it is an "issue of the exhaustion of intellectual property rights," the dispute settlement procedure shall not be used. There is no threshold or prerequisite for applying such provision. The Member applying this provision would be able to prevent such dispute settlement procedures unless the complaining party asserts and proves that the measure concerned is not such an "exhaustion issue".
5. It could also happen that exceptions or exemptions are granted under relevant agreements providing specific obligations. There are different ways of providing exceptions for specific activities or measures. Examples include paragraph 2 of Article XI of the GATT stating "...shall not extend to the following"; Articles XX and XXI of the GATT stating "nothing in this Agreement shall be

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-105
construed to..." These are in the nature of an affirmative defence. Here, the burden of proof rests on the party invoking the exception.
6. It is clear that Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture is not a "matter under an agreement not covered under the DSU". Neither is it a matter specifically excluded from the dispute settlement procedures as provided in Article 6 of the TRIPS Agreement. It is also not typical of the type of exception as contained in Articles XI, XX or XXI of the GATT. In our view, Article 13 falls between the type of exception in Article 6 of the TRIPS and that in Article XI, XX or XXI of the GATT. Thus the procedures for applying the provision should be interpreted differently.
7. In its First Written Submission, Brazil asserted that, "Article 13 is in the nature of an affirmative defense, because it provides an exception to a legal regime otherwise applying to agricultural support measures. It does not alter the scope of other provisions providing positive obligations on Members, and is not itself a positive obligation" and as a consequence, in this proceeding the United States has the burden of proof on the question of whether its subsidies "are in conformity with the AOA Article 13"1.
8. In our view, the very nature of Article 13 is such that it is not appropriate for any particular description or "label" such as an "affirmative defence", or "exception", to be ascribed to it, simply for the convenience of resolving the question of burden of proof.2 We consider that Article 13 in itself contains both rights and obligations of Members. The right conferred by Article 13, i.e. entitlement to "exempt from actions" is conditional; conditional upon a positive obligation of full conformity to the requirements as set out in the relevant provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture. We agree with the view put forward by the United States at paragraph 43 of its First Written Submission which purports to identify such positive obligations. If the contention that Article 13 confers a right as well as imposes a positive obligation, is accepted, then, as a complainant, it is for Brazil to prove a breach of this positive obligation by demonstrating non-conformity rather than for the United States to bear the burden of proving conformity. We consider that the above contention is the only logical conclusion in giving effect to Article 13. Since there is no scheme for a Member under Article 13 to prevent the initiation and the establishment of a panel, suppose Article 13 is interpreted in such a way as to still require the United States to bear the burden of proving the conformity of relevant provisions of the Agreement of Agriculture, it would mean Article 13 having less than its originally intended effect.
9. In addition to the above, drafters' intent should be taken into account when interpreting this Article. Domestic support measures are expressly allowed under this Article with the intention of giving Members some flexibility on domestic support measures to help the progressive liberalization of their agriculture. Requiring the respondent to bear the burden to prove that the subsidy measure in question is consistent with this Agreement will, to a certain degree, offset the respondent's right to claim for the exceptions provided by this Provision, which is contrary to the drafters' intention.
10. To impose the burden of proof on the respondent has another negative implication. In the case before us, if Brazil's argument stands, it would render the words "exempt from actions" pointless as the result would inevitably be a full-blown dispute settlement proceeding with Brazil submitting evidence to substantiate its complaints and the US filing its defence by invoking Article 13 and submitting proof of conformity thereto.
1 Brazil first Written Submission, paragraph 23. 2 In EC-Hormones, the Appellate Body is of the view that the particular description of "exception" did not discharge the burden of the complaining party in establishing a prima facie case. At para 104, the Appellate Body stated: the general rule in a dispute settlement proceeding requiring a complaining party to establish a prima facie case of inconsistency of a provision...before the burden of showing consistency with that provision is taken by the defending party is not avoided by simply describing the same provision as an exception."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page B-106 II. THE QUESTION OF PRELIMINARY RULINGS 11. Although on the evidence of past dispute settlement cases the normal practice of the Panel tends to be that it hears preliminary issues, provides indicative rulings and consolidates detailed reasoning only in the final Panel report, the questions associated with the correct interpretation of Article 13 are such that they merit the Panel's consideration and disposition at the earliest opportunity. 12. We consider that the preliminary issues raised in this dispute determine the manner in which the parties to this proceeding prepare their case. If the question of the correct interpretation of the words "exempt from actions" is not resolved along with the question of the allocation of burden of proof, considerable resources will be wasted both by complaining and defending claims. Needless to say, due process will not be properly served in such a case. Accordingly, we respectfully urge this Panel to adopt a special procedure to deal with this preliminary issue at the earliest opportunity so that parties to this dispute will not be prejudiced.3
3 This Panel may recall that the Appellant Body in EC-Banana indicated its opinion that "...this kind of issue could be decided early in panel proceedings, without causing prejudice and unfairness to any party or third party,.." WT/DS27/AB/R, at para. 144.

