WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION

WT/DS379/3 11 March 2009
(09-1225)

UNITED STATES ­ DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES ON CERTAIN PRODUCTS FROM CHINA
Constitution of the Panel Established at the Request of China
Note by the Secretariat

1. At its meeting on 20 January 2009, the Dispute Settlement Body ("DSB") established a Panel pursuant to the request of China in document WT/DS379/2, in accordance with Article 6 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding ("DSU").

2. The Panel's terms of reference are the following:

"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the covered agreements cited by China in document WT/DS379/2, the matter referred to the DSB by China in that document, and to make such findings as will assist the DSB in making the recommendations or in giving the rulings provided for in those agreements."

3. On 23 February 2009, China requested the Director-General to determine the composition of the Panel, pursuant to paragraph 7 of Article 8 of the DSU. This paragraph provides:

"If there is no agreement on the panelists within 20 days after the date of the establishment of a panel, at the request of either party, the Director-General, in consultation with the Chairman of the DSB and the Chairman of the relevant Council or Committee, shall determine the composition of the panel by appointing the panelists whom the Director-General considers most appropriate in accordance with any relevant special or additional rules or procedures of the covered agreement or covered agreements which are at issue in the dispute, after consulting with the parties to the dispute. The Chairman of the DSB shall inform the Members of the composition of the panel thus formed no later than 10 days after the date the Chairman receives such a request."

4. On 4 March 2009, the Director-General accordingly composed the Panel as follows:

Chairperson: Mr. David Walker

Members:

Mr. Thinus Jacobsz Ms Andrea Marie Brown

5. Argentina; Australia; Bahrain; Brazil; Canada; European Communities; India; Japan; Kuwait; Mexico; Norway; Saudi Arabia; Chinese Taipei and Turkey have reserved their rights to participate in the Panel proceedings as third parties.

__________

