WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION

WT/DS353/3 4 December 2006
(06-5799)

UNITED STATES ­ MEASURES AFFECTING TRADE IN LARGE CIVIL AIRCRAFT (SECOND COMPLAINT)

Constitution of the Panel Established at the Request of the European Communities

Note by the Secretariat

1. At its meeting on 17 February 2006, the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) established a Panel pursuant to the request of the European Communities in document WT/DS353/21, in accordance with
Article 6 of the DSU.

2. The Panel's terms of reference are the following:

"To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of the covered agreements cited by the European Communities in document WT/DS353/21, the matter referred to the
DSB by the European Communities in that document, and to make such findings as
will assist the DSB in making the recommendations or in giving the rulings provided
for in those agreements."

3. On 17 November 2006, the European Communities requested the Director-General to determine the composition of the Panel, pursuant to paragraph 7 of Article 8 of the DSU. This paragraph provides:

"If there is no agreement on the panelists within 20 days after the date of the establishment of a panel, at the request of either party, the Director-General, in consultation with the Chairman of the DSB and the Chairman of the relevant Council or Committee, shall determine the composition of the panel by appointing the panelists whom the Director-General considers most appropriate in accordance with any relevant special or additional rules or procedures of the covered agreement or covered agreements which are at issue in the dispute, after consultating with the parties to the dispute. The Chairman of the DSB shall inform the Members of the composition of the panel thus formed no later than 10 days after the date the Chairman receives such a request."

4. On 22 November 2006, Deputy Director-General Alejandro Jara, acting in place of the Director-General, composed the Panel as follows:

Chairperson: Mr. Crawford Falconer

Members:

Mr. Francisco Orrego Vicuña Mr. Virachai Plasai

1 This document is also numbered WT/DS317/5.

. /.

WT/DS353/3 Page 2
5. Australia, Brazil, China, Japan and Korea have reserved their rights to participate in the Panel proceedings as third parties.
__________

