WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-1

ANNEX C

ORAL STATEMENTS OF PARTIES AND THIRD PARTIES AT THE FIRST SESSION OF THE FIRST SUBSTANTIVE MEETING

Annex C-1 Annex C-2 Annex C-3 Annex C-4 Annex C-5 Annex C-6 Annex C-7 Annex C-8 Annex C-9 Annex C-10 Annex C-11 Annex C-12 Annex C-13 Annex C-14

Contents Executive Summary of the Opening Statement of Brazil Executive Summary of the Closing Statement of Brazil Executive Summary of the Opening Statement of the United States Executive Summary of the Closing Statement of the United States Third Party Oral Statement of Argentina Third Party Oral Statement of Australia Third Party Oral Statement of Benin Third Party Oral Statement of Canada Third Party Oral Statement of China Third Party Oral Statement of the European Communities Third Party Oral Statement of India Third Party Oral Statement of New Zealand Third Party Oral Statement of Paraguay Third Party Oral Statement of Chinese Taipei

Page C-2 C-7 C-12 C-16 C-20 C-27 C-33 C-36 C-40 C-43 C-53 C-55 C-58 C-61

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-2
ANNEX C-1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE ORAL STATEMENT OF BRAZIL AT THE FIRST SUBSTANTIVE MEETING
OF THE PANEL WITH THE PARTIES
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Brazil addresses first various peace clause issues, followed by Step 2 export and domestic payments, export credit guarantees and the ETI Act subsidies. Finally, Brazil addresses the "preliminary issues" raised by the United States.
II. PEACE CLAUSE ISSUES
The Peace Clause is an Affirmative Defence
2. The peace clause is in the nature of an affirmative defence and it is, thus, the US burden to prove that Brazil's claims under the SCM Agreement are "exempt from actions". An affirmative defence is a provision that does not set out any positive obligations but enables Members to maintain measures that are otherwise inconsistent with its WTO obligations. The peace clause does not in itself set out any positive obligations for Members, but simply provides a conditional shelter against certain actionable and prohibited export subsidy claims under the SCM Agreement. The peace clause meets the criteria set forth by the Appellate Body for an affirmative defence in US ­ FSC and in the Aircraft disputes, by being an exception to a legal regime otherwise applicable. Given the extraordinary protection it provides, it is not "bizarre", as the United States argues, that the peace clause requires the defending Member to prove that its domestic and export subsidies meet the conditions for peace clause protection.
"such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity"
3. This phrase in AoA Article 13(b)(ii) means that in calculating the amount of support for any marketing year between 1995-2003, all non-"green box" support provided to a specific commodity must be tabulated, regardless of whether the type or form of the support is "product-specific", "nonproduct specific", de minimis, or "blue box". This is certainly evidenced by the decision of negotiators not to use the phrases "product-specific" and "AMS" in Article 13(b)(ii) to qualify the type of support to a specific commodity. The US attempt to read "product-specific" into Article 13(b)(ii) is inconsistent not only with the text but also the context of the phrase "such measures" in Article 13(b)(ii). The US interpretation of "product-specific support" is further incompatible with the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture. It would create a new category of non-actionable trade-distorting non-"green box" subsidies and sanction huge increases in spending for "amber box" and, therefore trade-distorting, domestic support as long as it took the form of support for multiple commodities. This is contrary to the presumption of trade and productiondistorting effects for individual products from non-"green box" domestic support, which flows from a domestic measure being inconsistent with the "green box" requirements of AoA Annex 2.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-3
"that decided during the 1992 marketing year"
4. This word "decided" does not require any particular type of "decision". As a neutral term, the meaning of "decided" must be interpreted in a way that does justice to the ordinary meaning of other terms in Article 13(b)(ii) that are not neutral. Most importantly, the term "decided" must be interpreted in a manner that permits a comparison between a "grant" of non-"green box" "support" to a specific commodity for individual marketing years between 1995-2003, and a "decision" regarding such support in MY 1992. A textual interpretation reveals that the term "that" refers back to "support" and that support is accompanied by the term "granted".
5. The Appellate Body agreed with the panel in Brazil ­ Aircraft that the phrase "the level of export subsidies granted" meant "something actually provided", which means actual budgetary expenditures. Thus, the neutral term "decision" (for MY 1992) can only be read harmoniously with the term "grant support" (for MY 1995-2003) where the "decision" is to fund non-"green box" support to a specific commodity for marketing year 1992.
6. In addition, even if Article 13 would refer to a level of (income) support, as the United States alleges, the Appellate Body has held in Brazil ­ Aircraft that the "level" of export subsidies refers to actual expenditures.
7. The US interpretation of a "level of support" is furthermore inconsistent with its own interpretation of Article 13(b)(ii) in its Statement of Administrative Action (SAA). In the SAA, it stated that governments would have peace clause protection from adverse effects and serious prejudice challenges in the WTO "unless the AMS for the particular commodity exceeds the level decided in the 1992 marketing year". Brazil strongly disagrees with the notion of "AMS" as the relevant standard for the peace clause, but this official US interpretation of the peace clause in 1995 is nevertheless compelling evidence of the United States view of the "decision" it had taken during MY 1992. The calculation of the AMS for a particular commodity requires the calculation of the support provided in monetary terms. AoA Annex 3 offers two options for the calculation of AMS: budgetary outlays or the price gap formula detailed on paragraphs 10 and 11. Under either option, the AMS represents a measurement of support in monetary terms.
8. In sum, Brazil is of the firm view that the text of Article 13(b)(ii) requires comparing MY 1992 support with MY 1995-2003 support by comparing actual expenditures. This methodology produces an "amount" of support ­ not a "rate". Thus, any decision under Article 13(b)(ii), by definition, must relate in some way to an "amount" of expenditures. Only this methodology allows a clear comparison between the two time periods, regardless of the type of support.
9. However, even if the Panel were to decide that the relevant standard is a "rate of support" standard, Brazil has provided the testimony of Professor Daniel Sumner indicating that ­ following the US approach to measuring "support to upland cotton" ­ the "rate of support" to upland cotton in MY 1999-2002 was much higher than the "rate of support" to upland cotton in MY 1992. Based on the evidence and analysis presented by Professor Sumner, Brazil also asserts that even under the US "rate of support" methodology, the United States has failed to demonstrate that its MY 1999-2002 support does not exceed its support to upland cotton decided in MY 1992.
US "statute of limitations" interpretation of the peace clause
10. There is no express or implied "statute of limitations" in the peace clause. Subsidizing Members such as the United States are offered conditional protection under the peace clause during a 9-year period. But the rights of Members injured by subsidies provided in excess of 1992 marketing year levels are preserved throughout the implementation period as well. This is the balance struck by the peace clause.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-4
11. The US "statute of limitations" argument in this case is very similar to one rejected by the Appellate Body in US ­ Lead Bars. This argument is further inconsistent with the views of the Indonesia ­ Automobiles panel, which held that measures applied in the past must be examined to assess present serious prejudice. The US interpretation would cut off a Member's right to challenge such measures because it missed an imaginary deadline. This US interpretation is inconsistent with the object and purpose of the AoA because it would permit Members to provide huge "non-green" box support one year without peace clause protection, and then claim absolution as soon as the next marketing year began.
"Support to Upland Cotton"
12. Brazil has produced extensive evidence providing the factual basis for the Panel to find that CCP, DP, market loss, and PFC payments are "support to" upland cotton within the meaning of the peace clause. USDA categorizes the PFC and market loss payments as part of "total payments" to upland cotton. US National Cotton Council officials repeatedly testified and produced documents revealing that their producer members requested, received, and depended on all four of these subsidies. Crop insurance is also support to cotton as evidenced by specific upland cotton crop insurance policies and groups of policies for upland cotton. Moreover, USDA specifically identifies and tabulates crop insurance subsidies for upland cotton. In addition, all five domestic support measures fail to meet the requirements of AoA Annex 2. Therefore, they constitute non-"green box" support that is presumed to be production and trade distorting. Such distortions can, however, only occur with respect to the production of or the trade in a particular commodity. Because, PFC, market loss assistance, direct and counter-cyclical payments as well as crop insurance subsidies are available to producers of upland cotton, these production and trade-distorting subsidies affect the production of and trade in upland cotton. The Panel should, therefore, find that all five of these programmes granted support to upland cotton in MY 1999-2002.
Restrictions on Plantings of Fruits and Vegetables under the PFC and DP Programmes
13. Brazil presents evidence that PFC and direct payments are not "decoupled" domestic support. These payments are dependent on the requirement that a farmer does not produce fruits, vegetables, nuts or wild rice on the contract acreage. This restrictions has the effect of channelling production on contract acreage into production of programme crops, including upland cotton, and is of particular importance for upland cotton base acreage located in regions of the United States where production of fruits and vegetables is a viable alternative to the production of upland cotton.
III. STEP 2 EXPORT AND DOMESTIC PAYMENTS
14. The US Step 2 export payments clearly constitute subsidies contingent upon proof of export of US upland cotton. Step 2 export payments are export subsidies that violate AoA Articles 3.3 and 8 and that are prohibited by ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2.
15. Similarly, US Step 2 domestic payments are prohibited local content subsidies in violation of ASCM Article 3.1(b). There is no explicit derogation of ASCM Article 3.1(b) built into the Agriculture Agreement. In fact, the opposite is true, since AoA Article 13(b)(ii) provides a conditional exemption only for claims under ASCM Articles 5 and 6, but not for claims under ASCM Article 3. There is also no conflict between ASCM Article 3.1(b) and AoA Article 6 or Annex 3, paragraph 7, because there are two types of domestic support, including domestic support to processors of agricultural commodities ­ those that comply with Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement and those that do not.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-5
IV. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES
16. With respect to the consultations regarding the US export credit guarantee programmes, there is no doubt that the United States and Brazil consulted on three occasions about the GSM 102, GSM 103, and SCGP programmes as they relate to all eligible products. Thus, these measures are properly within the Panel's terms of reference and the Panel should reject the US request for a preliminary ruling.
17. With respect to Brazil's claims regarding the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP export credit guarantee programmes, the United States interpretation of AoA Article 10.2 should be rejected. AoA Article 10.2 does not carve out export credit guarantees from the disciplines on export subsidies under the AoA. Nowhere does the provision exempt export credit guarantees from the disciplines on export subsidies, while exemption need to be made explicit in the text of an agreement following the Appellate Body reports in EC ­ Hormones and EC ­ Sardines. Similarly the context of AoA Article 10 as well as its object and purpose do not support the US view of AoA Article 10.2 as enabling Members to grant export credit support at zero percent interest and for unlimited terms ­ all for free ­ until Members complete negotiations on specific disciplines for export credits.
18. Concerning the substance of Brazil's claims against export credit guarantees, the United States has not even addressed Brazil's claim that since there is no commercial market for export credit guarantees on terms such as those provided by the CCC programmes, those programmes confer benefits per se. Brazil furthermore demonstrates that under the US formula accounting for the budgetary costs of contingent liabilities of CCC export credit guarantees, operating costs and losses for GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP have outpaced premiums collected in every single year since the United States started applying the formula in 1992. These figures represent actual costs and losses of the US export credit guarantee programmes.
19. Thus, the programmes constitute export subsidies within the meaning of ASCM Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a), item (j) of the Illustrative List, and AoA Articles 10.1, 1(e) and 8. They "at the very least" threaten to circumvent US export subsidy commitments, in violation of Articles 10.1 and 8 and are prohibited under ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2.
V. ETI ACT
20. Lastly, the United States argues that Brazil has failed to meet is burden of proof that ETI Act subsidies constitute export subsidies violating the AoA and prohibited by the SCM Agreement. Brazil has adopted and reiterated all of the successful arguments of the EC in the US ­ FSC (21.5) dispute. Brazil asks the Panel to follow the panel in India ­ Patents (EC) and to give "significant weight" to the rulings in the US ­ FSC (21.5) dispute and to avoid "inconsistent rulings", while recognizing that the Panel is not formally bound by that decision.
VI. PRELIMINARY ISSUES
21. Brazil has addressed the US request for a preliminary ruling on export credit guarantees above.
22. Concerning the US request for a preliminary ruling on the MY 2002 cottonseed payments, the record indicates that Brazil's consultation request covered "future" measures related to existing measures; it indicates further that Brazil and the United States consulted about the "Cottonseed Payment Programme", and that the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 provided funding for the existing administrative structure of the Cottonseed Payment Programme. Therefore, following the Appellate Body decision in Chile ­ Agricultural Products (Price Band), the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 is properly within the Panel's terms of reference. In any event, the $50 million in

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-6
cottonseed payments are properly treated as "support to cotton" for the purposes of the peace clause calculation of the amount of support granted in MY 2002.
23. Regarding the US arguments that PFC and market loss assistance payments are outside the Panels terms of reference, as they constitute expired measures, Brazil asks the Panel to reject this third US request for a preliminary ruling. Brazil has properly included PFC and market loss assistance payments as part of its claims relating to present serious prejudice. Consultations under DSU Article 4.2 may be held concerning measures affecting the operation of a covered agreement. ASCM Article 5 requires a Member to avoid causing adverse effects, which may be the effects of current or previous, expired subsidies. As in the Indonesia ­ Automobiles dispute, expired measures are eminently within the Panel's terms of reference. Denying Members the possibility to challenge expired measures would yield the result that a Member could enact "one-time" subsidy measures that could never be challenged and the provisions of ASCM Articles 5 and 6 would thereby be rendered a nullity.
VI. CONCLUSION
24. Brazil requests the Panel to reject all three US requests for preliminary rulings and to rule that AoA Article 13 does not exempt US domestic support and export subsidies from actions under the SCM Agreement.

ANNEX C-2

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-7

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE CLOSING STATEMENT OF BRAZIL AT THE FIRST SUBSTANTIVE MEETING OF THE PANEL WITH THE PARTIES
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Brazil addresses first the "preliminary issues" raised by the United States, and then the various peace clause issues. Finally, Brazil addresses the Step 2, ETI Act and export credit guarantee measures.
II. PRELIMINARY ISSUES
2. With respect to the consultations regarding the US export credit guarantee programmes, there is no doubt that the United States and Brazil consulted on three occasions about the GSM 102, GSM 103, and SCGP programmes as they relate to all eligible products. Thus, these measures are properly within the Panel's terms of reference.
3. Regarding the MY 2002 cottonseed payments, the record indicates that Brazil's consultation request covered "future" measures related to existing measures; it indicates further that Brazil and the United States consulted about the "Cottonseed Payment Programme", and that the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 provided funding for the existing administrative structure of the Cottonseed Payment Programme. Therefore, the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 is properly within the Panel's terms of reference. In any event, the $50 million in cottonseed payments are properly treated as "support to cotton" for the purposes of the peace clause calculation of the amount of support granted in MY 2002.
4. Regarding the US arguments that PFC and market loss assistance payments are outside the Panels terms of reference, as they constitute expired measures, Brazil asks the Panel to reject this third US request for a preliminary ruling. Brazil has properly included PFC and market loss assistance payments as part of its claims relating to present serious prejudice. ASCM Article 5 requires a Member to avoid causing adverse effects, which may be the effects of current or previous, expired subsidies. Adverse present effects caused by both types of measures are eminently within the Panel's terms of reference. As a factual matter, the Panel must decide on the question whether a particular expired subsidy has an actual causal connection with currently existing adverse effects. Yet, by granting the US request for a preliminary ruling the Panel would effectively dismiss Brazil's claim. Therefore, the fact that a subsidy measure has expired cannot be the basis for a priori excluding it from the Panel's terms of reference.
5. Furthermore, DSU Article 4.2 and 6.2 ­ invoked by the United States ­ must be applied in the context of the remedies provided for actionable subsidies under ASCM Articles 7.2-7.10. Under DSU Article 19 a panel can only recommend that the Member bring a wrongful measure into conformity with the covered agreement(s) at issue. However, for disputes concerning ASCM Articles 5 and 6, ASCM Article 7.8 contemplates two different remedies: removal of the adverse effects or withdrawal of the subsidy. While a Member cannot bring an expired measure into conformity with the covered agreements, both of the ASCM Article 7.8 remedies are valid options even for remedying the effects of a subsidy measure no longer in effect (as in the Australia ­ Leather dispute). As ASCM Articles 7.2-7.10 are "special and additional rules and procedures" under DSU Article 1.2 and DSU Appendix 2, they must prevail to the extent there is a difference between them and DSU Articles 4

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-8
and 6. This means that contrary to disputes involving other covered agreements, the Panel is required to address the adverse effects of expired subsidy measures.
6. Further, ASCM Articles 5 and 6.3 make no distinction between subsidies that are now being paid and subsidies that are no longer being paid but have a causal relationship to continuing adverse effects, as evidenced by the Panel report in Indonesia ­ Automobiles, which found serious prejudice arising, inter alia, from expired subsidy measures that had been provided for one year and ­ like the market loss assistance payments ­ been terminated.
III. PEACE CLAUSE ISSUES
"such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity"
7. This phrase in Article 13(b)(ii) means that in calculating the amount of support for any marketing year between 1995-2003, all non-"green box" support provided to a specific commodity must be tabulated, regardless of whether the type or form of the support is "product-specific," "nonproduct specific", de minimis, or "blue box". This is certainly evidenced by the decision of negotiators not to use the phrases "product-specific" and "AMS" in Article 13(b)(ii) to qualify the type of support to a specific commodity. The US attempt to read "product-specific" into Article 13(b)(ii) is inconsistent not only with the text but also the context of the phrase "such measures" in Article 13(b)(ii). The US interpretation is further incompatible with the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture. It would create a new category of non-actionable tradedistorting non-"green box" subsidies and sanction huge increases in spending for "amber box" and, therefore trade-distorting, domestic support as long as it took the form of support for multiple commodities. This is contrary to the presumption of trade and production-distorting effects for individual products from non-"green box" domestic support, which flows from a domestic measure being inconsistent with the "green box" requirements of Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement.
"that decided during the 1992 marketing year"
8. This word "decided" does not require any particular type of "decision". As a neutral term, the meaning of "decided" must be interpreted in a way that does justice to the ordinary meaning of other terms in Article 13(b)(ii) that are not neutral. Most importantly, the term "decided" must be interpreted in a manner that permits a comparison between a "grant" of non-"green box" "support" to a specific commodity for individual marketing years between 1995-2003, and a "decision" regarding such support in MY 1992. The Appellate Body agreed with the panel in Brazil ­ Aircraft that the phrase "the level of export subsidies granted" meant "something actually provided", which means actual budgetary expenditures. Thus, the neutral term "decision" (for MY 1992) can only be read harmoniously with the term "grant support" (for MY 1995-2003) where the "decision" is to fund non"green box" support to a specific commodity for marketing year 1992.
9. The US argument that the only decision it took during MY 1992 was a "fixed rate of support" for MY 1992 is totally inconsistent with the US Statement of Administrative Action (SAA), in which the United States provided its official interpretation of the peace clause. In the SAA, the United States stated that governments would have peace clause protection from adverse effects and serious prejudice challenges in the WTO "unless the AMS for the particular commodity exceeds the level decided in the 1992 marketing year." Brazil strongly disagrees with the notion of "AMS" as the relevant standard for the peace clause, and draws the attention of the Panel to the fact that the United States now admits that "AMS" is nowhere found in the text of Article 13(b)(ii). But this official US interpretation of the peace clause in 1995 is nevertheless compelling evidence of the United States view of the "decision" it had taken during MY 1992. And this interpretation did not reflect a decision regarding only a rate of support. Instead, the only two "decision" options were set out in the AoA Annex 3, where "AMS" is calculated. This calculation is based on either budgetary

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-9
outlays, or a calculated amount based on the difference between a fixed reference price and the applied administered price multiplied by the amount of production eligible to receive the administered price. Under either option, the United States' interpretation indicates that an "amount" (not a "rate of support") is the measure of support under the peace clause.
10. The SAA statement is also strong evidence that the alleged US "decision" to continue the 1990 FACT Act level of support at 72.9 cents per pound is simply post hoc rationalization. Brazil presents evidence that prior to this dispute, the United States had not made up its mind on what would constitute the relevant decision for peace clause purposes. A series of questions asked by Brazil in the Committee on Agriculture and answers provided by the United States reveals that as of 28 June 2002, the United States had not yet made a "decision" regarding which year the United States was using with respect to Article 13(b)(ii). These questions provided the United States with every opportunity to announce the decision that it had allegedly taken 10 years before. Yet, it said nothing about a "rate of support".
11. In sum, Brazil is of the firm view that the text of Article 13(b)(ii) requires comparing MY 1992 support with MY 1995-2003 support by comparing actual expenditures. This methodology produces an "amount" of support ­ not a "rate". Thus, any decision under Article 13(b)(ii), by definition, must relate in some way to an "amount" of expenditures. Only such methodology allows a clear comparison between the two time periods, regardless of the type of support.
12. However, even if the Panel were to decide that the relevant standard is a "rate of support" standard, Brazil has provided the testimony of Professor Daniel Sumner indicating that the "rate of support" to upland cotton in MY 1999-2002 was much higher than the "rate of support" to upland cotton in MY 1992. Based on the evidence and analysis presented by Professor Sumner, Brazil also asserts that even under the US "rate of support" methodology, the United States has failed to demonstrate that its MY 1999-2002 support does not exceed its support to upland cotton decided in MY 1992.
US "statute of limitations" interpretation of the peace clause
13. There is no express or implied "statute of limitations" in the peace clause. Subsidizing Members such as the United States are offered conditional protection under the peace clause during a 9-year period. But the rights of Members injured by subsidies provided in excess of 1992 marketing year levels are preserved throughout the implementation period as well. This is the balance struck by the peace clause.
14. The US "statute of limitations" argument in this case is very similar to one rejected by the Appellate Body in US ­ Lead Bars. This argument is further inconsistent with the views of the Indonesia ­ Automobiles panel, which held that measures applied in the past must be examined to assess present serious prejudice. The US interpretation would cut off a Member's right to challenge such measures because it missed an imaginary deadline. This US interpretation is inconsistent with the object and purpose of the AoA because it would permit Members to provide huge "non-green" box support one year without peace clause protection, and then claim absolution as soon as the next marketing year began.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-10
"Support to Upland Cotton"
15. Brazil has produced extensive evidence providing the factual basis for the Panel to find that CCP, DP, market loss, and PFC payments are "support to" upland cotton within the meaning of the peace clause. USDA categorizes the PFC and market loss payments as part of "total payments" to upland cotton. US National Cotton Council officials repeatedly testified and produced documents revealing that their producer members requested, received, and depended on all four of these subsidies. Crop insurance is also support to cotton as evidenced by specific upland cotton crop insurance policies and groups of policies for upland cotton. Moreover, USDA specifically identifies and tabulates crop insurance subsidies for upland cotton. Thus, the Panel should find that all five of these programmes granted support to upland cotton in MY 1999-2002.
IV. STEP 2 PAYMENTS
16. The US Step 2 export subsidies clearly constitute export subsidies that violate Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agriculture Agreement and that are prohibited by Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement because they are contingent upon proof of export of US upland cotton.
17. Similarly, US domestic Step 2 subsidies are prohibited local content subsidies in violation of Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement. There is no explicit derogation of Article 3.1(b) built into the Agriculture Agreement. In fact, the opposite is true, since Article 13(b)(ii) provides a conditional exemption only for claims under Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement, but not for claims under Article 3 of the SCM Agreement. There is also no conflict between Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement and Agriculture Agreement Article 6 or Annex 3, paragraph 7, because there are two types of domestic subsidies ­ those that comply with Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement and those that do not.
V. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES
18. With respect to Brazil's claims regarding the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP export guarantee programmes, the United States interpretation of AoA Article 10.2 should be rejected. Under the US view of Article 10.2, it can grant export credit support at zero percent interest and for unlimited terms ­ all for free ­ at least until Members complete negotiations on specific disciplines for export credits. This interpretation is not supported by a Vienna Convention analysis.
19. The United States has not even addressed Brazil's claim that since there is no commercial market for export credit guarantees on terms such as those provided by the CCC programmes, those programmes confer benefits per se. And Brazil has demonstrated that under the cost formula used by the White House, the US Congress, US government accountants and the CCC itself, operating costs and losses for GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP have outpaced premiums collected in every single year since the United States started applying the formula in 1992. These figures represent actual costs and losses of the US export credit guarantee programmes. The programmes therefore constitute export subsidies within the meaning of ASCM Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a), item (j) of the Illustrative List, and AoA Articles 10.1, 1(e) and 8. They "at the very least" threaten to circumvent US export subsidy commitments, in violation of Articles 10.1 and 8 and are prohibited under ASCM Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2.
VI. CONCLUSION
20. Brazil requests the Panel to reject the numerous attempts by the United States to delay the initiation of Brazil's serious prejudice claims. Brazilian upland cotton producers are experiencing present serious prejudice from continued huge amounts of US subsidies to upland cotton. Applying

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-11
either methodology of calculating the support for peace clause purposes, the United States has no basis to claim peace clause protection.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-12
ANNEX C-3
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE OPENING STATEMENT OF THE UNITED STATES AT THE FIRST MEETING OF THE PANEL WITH THE PARTIES
1. The United States has stayed within the disciplines and acted consistently with its WTO obligations negotiated and agreed in the Uruguay Round. We share many of Brazil's objectives with respect to reform of measures that affect agricultural trade, but we obviously do not endorse the means by which Brazil is attempting to obtain changes to WTO-consistent US support measures for upland cotton. Brazil seeks to impose disciplines and achieve results through this litigation that were not agreed in the Uruguay Round through negotiation.
2. Brazil suggests that whether a Member's measures are in breach of the Peace Clause should be judged by comparing the aggregate outlays that may be attributed to a commodity to the aggregate outlays that were made during the 1992 marketing year that, again, may be attributed to that commodity. Brazil's erroneous analysis stems from three interpretive missteps.
3. First, with respect to measures currently in effect, Brazil mistakenly suggests that support under previous measures in past years is relevant to the Peace Clause comparison. The proviso, however, is written in the present tense and thus, with respect to measures currently in effect, calls for a determination of the support that challenged measures currently grant. Brazil nowhere explains how the support in any previous years is relevant to the present-tense criterion that Peace Clause-exempted measures "do not grant support" in excess of a certain level. In fact, Brazil's analysis of the ordinary meaning and context of the phrase "grant support" assigns no meaning to Members' choice of verb tense.
4. Second, Brazil misunderstands the support that is relevant to the Peace Clause comparison because it misreads the phrase "support to a specific commodity". Brazil and New Zealand have asserted that, had Members intended for the phrase "support to a specific commodity" to mean "product-specific support", they would have used the latter phrase. With respect, this pushes the general interpretive aid of reading different word choices to carry different meanings too far. It ignores the relevant task for an interpreter, which is to read the text according to its ordinary meaning, in context, and in light of the object and purpose of the agreement. The ordinary meaning of the phrase "support to a specific commodity," in the context of the Agriculture Agreement, is "product-specific support".
5. We note that the Agriculture Agreement suggests that domestic support consists, in part, of product-specific and non-product-specific support. Brazil's interpretation of "support to a specific commodity," however, would apparently also capture "non-product-specific support". Absent a clear indication that such a contrary-to-logic result was intended, the interpreter should read "support to a specific commodity" to exclude "non-product-specific support". We note that the Agriculture Agreement suggests that domestic support consists, in part, of product-specific support and non-product-specific support. Brazil's interpretation of "support to a specific commodity", however, would apparently also capture "non-product-specific support". Absent a clear indication that such a contrary-to-logic result was intended, the interpreter should read "support to a specific commodity" to exclude "non-product-specific support".
6. Third, Brazil ignores the way in which the United States "decided" (that is, "determined" or "pronounced") the product-specific support for upland cotton during the 1992 marketing year. As

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-13
Brazil explained in its first submission, the Peace Clause text resulted from the EC's desire to protect from challenge measures "decided" in 1992 for purposes of CAP reform, rather than support "provided" during marketing year 1992. That is precisely the approach the United States suggests: examine the product-specific support "decided" during marketing year 1992 and compare it to the product-specific support that measures currently in effect grant. Brazil fails to explain to the Panel how US measures actually decided support during the 1992 marketing year in favour of Brazil's pre-baked conclusion that the "term `decided during the 1992 marketing year' requires an examination of the amount or quantity of support . . . for a specific commodity that a WTO Member `decided' to provide during the 1992 marketing year". In fact, US measures "decided" support in the 1992 marketing year by ensuring upland cotton producer income at a rate of 72.9 cents per pound. Brazil nowhere explains how US domestic support measures could have "decided" the amount of outlays since those outlays resulted from the difference between the income support level and world prices during Marketing Year 1992 beyond the US Government's control.
7. Brazil has argued that the US approach would create an annual "statute of limitations" for the applicability of the Peace Clause and that the problem with this approach is budgetary outlays are not known until after a given marketing year is completed. This comment, rather, points out the difficulties of Brazil's approach that only budgetary outlays may be examined under the Peace Clause. That is, Brazil effectively concedes that under its approach there would be no certainty for Members whether measures are exempt from actions. For example, it would be difficult to know whether budgetary outlays under the 2002 Act exceeded 1992 outlays as of Brazil's panel request in February 2003.
8. With respect to US direct payments, which the United States believes are "green box" measures, Brazil argues that these payments do not satisfy the "fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production" under the first sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 2. However, the text of Annex 2 indicates that "domestic support measures" shall be deemed to have met this "fundamental requirement" if the measures "conform to the . . . basic criteria" of the second sentence, plus any applicable policy-specific criteria, by beginning the second sentence with "accordingly". This interpretation is supported by relevant context in the Agreement; as the European Communities notes in its third party submission, Articles 6.1, 7.1, and 7.2 refer to the measures "which are not subject to reduction commitments because they qualify under the criteria set out in Annex 2".
9. In addition to the basic criteria in paragraph 1, US direct payments must also conform to the five "policy-specific criteria and conditions" set out in paragraph 6 of Annex 2. Brazil brings forward two arguments that direct payments do not satisfy the criterion under paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2 that the amount of payments not be related to, or based on, production undertaken in any year after the base period. First, Brazil argues that by eliminating or reducing payments if recipients harvest certain fruits or vegetables, payments are related to production in a year after the base period. However, no particular type of production is required in order to receive such payments ­ indeed, no production is necessary at all. Brazil's argument, moreover, proves too much. Under Brazil's analysis, any limitation on a producer's choices in a year after the base period that would alter the amount of payment would be inconsistent with paragraph 6(b). However, a requirement that a recipient of direct payments produce nothing at all (or see the payment reduced or eliminated) would link the amount of payment to the type or volume of production in the current year. Such a requirement would also ensure that such payments meet the "fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production" because there would be no production at all. Thus, under Brazil's analysis, paragraph 6(b) would prevent a payment that would demonstrably achieve the "fundamental requirement" of Annex 2. This result is not required by the text of paragraph 6(b) and should be avoided.
10. Second, Brazil argues that direct payments are based on production in a year after the base period because once one type of direct payment to producers under Annex 2 has been made, all

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-14
subsequent measures providing direct payments must be made with respect to the same base period. The Annex 2 text does not support such a reading, however. Annex 2 says that "[d]omestic support measures for which exemption from the reduction commitments is claimed" shall meet the fundamental requirement of the first sentence through the relevant basic and policy-specific criteria of the second sentence. For example, in the case of decoupled income support, the particular "domestic support measure" must meet "policy-specific criteria and conditions as set out" in paragraph 6. Paragraph 6(a), (b), (c), and (d) relate "such payments" to "a defined and fixed base period". Thus, payments with respect to a given "domestic support measure for which exemption from the reduction commitments is claimed" must satisfy conditions relating to "a defined and fixed base period". There is no textual requirement that all domestic support measures for which exemption from the reduction commitments is claimed utilize the same "defined and fixed base period". Brazil also reads paragraph 6 as though the text were "the defined and fixed base period". However, this is not what the text says nor what the negotiators agreed.
11. Brazil and the rest of the Cairns Group seek to address this very issue by proposing in the ongoing agriculture negotiations that Annex 2, paragraph 6, be amended to change the reference from "a defined and fixed base period" to "a defined, fixed and unchanging historical base period". The revised Harbinson text, in Attachment 8, incorporates this Cairns Group proposal by proposing adding to paragraphs 5, 6, 11, and 13 of Annex 2 the text: "Payments shall be based on activities in a fixed and unchanging historical base period." Again, Brazil is seeking to gain through litigation what it has not yet gained through negotiation.
12. The Step 2 programme has been constructed and implemented in a manner to support the price paid to US upland cotton producers by purchasers of their product. Step 2 is a single programme that provides for payments on all sales of all upland cotton produced in the United States in a given marketing year ­ whether those sales are for export or for domestic consumption. Step 2 payments are provided to merchandisers or manufacturers who use upland cotton as they represent the first step in the marketing chain where these payments could be made and have the greatest impact on producer prices.
13. The authorizing statute plainly does not state that the Step 2 payment is contingent upon export. The statute provides for Step 2 payments to a class of eligible users who constitute the entire universe of potential purchasers of upland cotton from producers. Payment occurs upon demonstration of the requisite use of the cotton. Unlike the facts of United States - FSC (Recourse to Article 21.5) , the Step 2 subsidy involves a universally available subsidy on sales of one agricultural product produced entirely in the United States, not tied to exportation or foreign commerce. Stated most simply, US upland cotton does not have to be exported to receive the payment. Assuming the conditions in the payment formula are met, all US upland cotton is sold with an entitlement to the Step 2 subsidy, whether it leaves the United States or is consumed there.
14. For nearly 15 years before the inception of obligations under the Agreement on Agriculture, as well as since that time, the core features of the two main agricultural export credit guarantee programmes of the United States (GSM-102 and GSM-103) have remained substantially the same. They are well-known and well-established export credit guarantee programmes, specifically discussed by negotiators during the Uruguay Round, as well as in the OECD and in the current Doha Round.
15. Article 9.1 of the Agriculture Agreement identifies and lists specific export subsidy programmes, also well-known to the negotiators, who wanted to assure that such specific practices were embraced within the definition of an export subsidy for purposes of the Agreement on Agriculture. Other export subsidies are captured within the anti-circumvention provision of Article 10.1. In contrast, export credit guarantees were not included in either Article 9.1 or 10.1. Instead, as part of the balance struck in the Uruguay Round, negotiators opted to extend the negotiations on this subject but determined to hold Members to a commitment that if and when internationally agreed disciplines emerged, the United States, like all other WTO Members, could

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-15
only grant export credit guarantees in conformity with such disciplines. To do otherwise would at that time constitute a violation of the Member's obligations under the Agreement on Agriculture.
16. Article 10.2 expresses the two commitments of the Members in this regard: (1) to engage in such negotiations notwithstanding the conclusion of the Uruguay Round and (2) upon development of internationally agreed disciplines to render them WTO commitments through the portal of Article 10.2. Article 10.2 does not state that export credit guarantees shall be subject to such future negotiated disciplines in addition to the anti-circumvention provisions of Article 10.1. To the contrary, Article 10.2 and the reference to export credit guarantees is juxtaposed to Article 10.1 to reflect the intention of the drafters to distinguish export credit guarantee programmes from other programmes that otherwise would be export subsidies subject to Article 10.1.
17. For the foregoing reasons and those set out in our first written submission, the United States believes that US non-green box measures are exempt from actions pursuant to Agriculture Agreement Article 13(b)(ii); US direct payments are exempt from actions pursuant to Agriculture Agreement Article 13(a)(ii); and US export credit guarantee programmes for upland cotton and Step 2 payments are consistent with our WTO obligations.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-16
ANNEX C-4
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE CLOSING STATEMENT OF THE UNITED STATES AT THE FIRST MEETING OF THE PANEL WITH THE PARTIES
1. On the US requests for preliminary rulings, the Panel expressed some interest in the question of what prejudice would result to the United States if we were forced to defend export credit guarantees with respect to commodities other than upland cotton. First and foremost, the United States would have lost the benefit of consultations on these measures. Consultations serve a number of important functions, including helping the parties to understand each others' concerns and aiding in efforts to resolve the dispute. The DSU affirms the importance of consultations and requires that a Member cannot proceed to a panel unless the Member has consulted on that measure.
2. Moreover, to require the United States to address Brazil's allegations on these measures would impose additional burdens on the United States and detract from the time and resources available to respond for those measures that are within the terms of reference. The United States has export subsidy reduction commitments with respect to 12 commodities. Each such commodity is therefore subject to individual Peace Clause analysis under Article 13(c). In addition, under Brazil's approach, the type of analysis the United States has offered for upland cotton concerning item (j) of the Subsidies Agreement would be appropriate for all commodities subject to the coverage of the Agriculture Agreement. This would necessitate a commodity-by-commodity analysis of the export credit guarantee programmes, as applied, concerning premiums and long-term operating costs and losses (if any).
3. But in the end, the issue of prejudice to the United States does not figure in the question of whether a measure is within the Panel's terms of reference. It is that question that underlies the United States' preliminary ruling requests.
4. First, the United States has requested that the Panel find that export credit guarantee measures relating to other eligible agricultural commodities are not within the Panel's terms of reference. While Brazil's panel request did refer to "export credit guarantees . . . to facilitate the export of US upland cotton and other eligible agricultural commodities," its consultation request did not. That consultation request nowhere included the "other eligible agricultural commodities" language, nor did Brazil include these measures in its statement of available evidence. Thus, those measures on other eligible agricultural commodities were not part of the "measures at issue" that Brazil identified in its consultation request as it is required to do under DSU Article 4.4. Contrary to Brazil's statement a few moments ago, the United States and Brazil never consulted on export credit guarantees on commodities other than cotton ­ not once and certainly not three times. Brazil said as much on the first day of the first panel meeting when it acknowledged that the United States told Brazil at the first consultation that its questions were beyond the scope of the consultations.
5. On the question whether the export credit guarantee programmes were one measure or multiple measures: There is no reason why export guarantees for multiple products cannot be multiple measures. Under DSU Article 4.4, it is incumbent upon Brazil to identify in its consultation request "the measures at issue." Here, Brazil identified the measure as the "export credit guarantees . . . to facilitate the export of US upland cotton," and the United States may, and did, rely on that consultation request (including the attached statement of evidence) for notice.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-17
6. For example, if a Member banned imports of all animal products for a stated health reason, and another Member filed a consultation request on the ban solely with respect to imports of beef, that complaining Member could not then expand the scope of the dispute through its written consultation questions or its panel request to challenge that ban with respect to other affected agricultural commodities. This is, however, what Brazil is attempting to do here.
7. Brazil also relies on footnote 1 of its consultation request, which refers to an explanation "below". Such an explanation expanding the scope of the request to include "other eligible agricultural commodities" is not found in the consultation request. DSU Article 4.4 requires Brazil to provide "an identification of the measures at issue," not a cryptic reference that is not explained further. Despite notice from the United States and despite ample opportunity to submit a new consultation request, Brazil never did so. Therefore, export credit guarantee measures relating to eligible US agricultural commodities other than US upland cotton were not the subject of consultations and pursuant to DSU Articles 4.4, 4.7, and 6.2 do not form part of the Panel's terms of reference.
8. With respect to production flexibility contract payments and market loss assistance payments, we have explained that these payments were completed, the programmes terminated, and the statutory instruments providing them were superseded before Brazil's consultation request was filed. The measures that Brazil challenges are subsidies or payments provided by these programmes. The laws authorizing these payments designated that each such payment was allocated to a particular crop or fiscal year. Thus, pursuant to the 1996 Act, the last production flexibility contract payment for fiscal year 2002 was made no later than the end of fiscal year 2002. As Brazil states in its first submission, "[w]ith the passage of the new FSRI Act in May 2002, PFC payments were discontinued". The last market loss assistance payment was made with respect to the 2001 marketing year (1 August 200131 July 2002) pursuant to legislation enacted on 13 August 2001. Because the relevant fiscal year and the relevant marketing year, respectively, had been completed by the time of Brazil's consultation and/or panel requests, these measures cannot have been consulted upon within the meaning of DSU Article 4.2 nor have been "measures at issue" within the meaning of DSU Article 6.2. They therefore do not fall within the Panel's terms of reference. Brazil's suggestion that Articles 7.2 to 7.10 of the Subsidies Agreement should supersede the DSU provisions concerning this Panel's terms of reference is novel. Preliminarily, we note that Article 7.4 does mention the Panel's terms of reference, but only in the context of setting a 15-day deadline for establishing them, as opposed to the time line under DSU Article 7.1.
9. Finally, with respect to subsidies provided under the Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 ­ the cottonseed payment ­ these are measures that were not even in existence at the time of Brazil's panel request. As the cottonseed payment had not been made (implementing regulations were not even issued until 25 April 2003) and the legislation authorizing the payments had not been enacted at the time of Brazil's panel request, this subsidy or measure was not consulted upon and could not have been a measure at issue between the parties. Therefore, the United States requests that the Panel make preliminary rulings that these three sets of measures are not within its terms of reference.
10. To summarize briefly where our discussions on the Peace Clause have brought us: Brazil suggests in this dispute that the word " actions" in the phrase "exempt from actions" only refers to "collective action" by the DSB. However, we note that Brazil's interpretation runs directly contrary to the view it expressed in its consultation request in the dispute European Communities ­ Export Subsidies on Sugar (WT/DS266/1). With respect to Article 13(c)(ii), which uses the same phrase "exempt from actions" at issue in this dispute, Brazil wrote: "In respect of the claims based on Article 3 of the SCM Agreement, because the export subsidies provided by the EC on sugar do not conform fully to the provisions of Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture, those export subsidies are not exempt from challenge by virtue of Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture." That is, in that WTO document Brazil does not read the phrase "exempt from actions" to mean "exempt from remedies" or "exempt from collective action by the DSB" but rather "exempt from challenge".

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-18
Brazil's interpretation in that WTO consultation request could only result if "exempt from action" in the Peace Clause means "not subject to" the "taking of legal steps to establish a claim" ­ as the United States has been contending in this dispute. We submit that this interpretation by Brazil is correct.
11. The Peace Clause ­ in Brazil's words ­ "exempt[s] from challenge" certain measures. It follows that the Peace Clause is not an affirmative defence but rather a threshold issue for Brazil in this dispute. As Brazil implicitly recognized in both its panel and consultation requests, to even reach the point where it will, as the complaining party, be allowed to pursue its substantive claims, Brazil must first demonstrate that the Peace Clause does not exempt US measures from action ­ that is "from challenge".
12. On US direct payments, which the United States believes are "green box" measures because they satisfy the criteria set out in Annex 2: As a question from the Chair to Brazil suggested, assessing the conformity of a claimed green box measure against the "fundamental requirement" of the first sentence of paragraph 1 would be a difficult, if not impossible task, for a Panel. Members foresaw the problem and therefore provided guidance on how a measure would fulfill that fundamental requirement ­ that is, if the measures "conform to the . . . basic criteria" of the second sentence plus any applicable policy-specific criteria, they shall be deemed to have met the fundamental requirement.
13. With respect to the criterion in paragraph 6(b) that the amount of decoupled income support payments not be based on, or linked to, production undertaken in any year after the base period, this provision need not and should not be read as Brazil suggests. The text supports a reading that a Member may not base or link payments to production requirements. The EC endorsed this view this morning. US direct payments require no particular type of production ­ indeed, no production is necessary at all. As we have suggested, Brazil's reading of paragraph 6(b) would prevent a Member from prohibiting a recipient from producing crops ­ that is, would prevent a measure that bases or links payments to a type or volume of production: none at all. If there is no production at all as a result of the measure, such a measure necessarily can have no "trade-distorting effects or effects on production". Thus, Brazil's reading of paragraph 6(b) would preclude a Member from establishing a measure that meets the "fundamental requirement" of Annex 2. Paragraph 6(b) need not and should not be read in opposition to that fundamental requirement. In the context provided by the first sentence of Annex 2, then, paragraph 6(b) should be read as establishing that a Member may not base or link payments to requirements to produce any crop in particular ­ again, US direct payments require no upland cotton production and do not require any production at all.
14. Brazil has repeatedly raised the spectre of unchecked US domestic subsidies should the Panel agree with the US interpretation of the Peace Clause. Brazil's fears are groundless. Of course the United States may not provide subsidies without any limit. US subsidies are disciplined in several ways, and the US has deliberately kept itself within those limits. There are two main disciplines that apply. The first is the US final bound commitment level under the Current Total Aggregate Measurement of Support. The second, as we have discussed at length, is the Peace Clause itself and its effective limitation to a level of producer support of 72.9 cents per pound. The United States has stayed within the boundaries of those limits despite, as outlined in Brazil's filings, pressure to do otherwise. We are entitled to the benefit of that compliance.
15. We can understand that Brazil might feel that these limits are not enough. New limits may be negotiated in the ongoing agriculture negotiations, in which the United States shares many of the same goals as Brazil. Until that happens, however, Brazil may not seek to overturn the balance of rights and obligations negotiated and agreed by Members in the Uruguay Round. Brazil's Peace Clause interpretation would do violence to the text of the Agriculture Agreement and would penalize the United States for deciding support to upland cotton producers within the limits set by the Agreement. We therefore ask the Panel to find that Brazil has not established that US domestic

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-19
support measures breach the Peace Clause and that such measures are therefore exempt from Brazil's action at this time.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-20

ANNEX C-5

ORAL THIRD PARTY COMMUNICATION BY THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
24 July 2003
I. INTRODUCTION
1. The Argentine Republic thanks the Panel for the opportunity to present its views as a third party to these proceedings and, in pursuant to its Submission dated 15 July1, will comment on the claims contained in the First Written Submission of the United States, dated 11 July.
2. In this connection, Argentina will comment more particularly on:
(a) The US interpretation of the provisions of the Peace Clause, particularly in Article 13(b)(ii);
(b) the US interpretations regarding Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture and, lastly;
(c) the US interpretation whereby Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture excludes export credit guarantees from the general export subsidy disciplines in the Agreement on Agriculture and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.
II. UNITED STATES CLAIMS
(a) Interpretation of the Peace Clause
3. Argentina will discuss what it regards as a mistaken US interpretation of the terms of the Peace Clause, particularly in Article 13(b) of the Agreement on Agriculture2, whereby it draws the conclusion ­ equally mistaken ­ that its domestic support measures are exempt from the measures based on Article XVI.I of the GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the Agreement on Subsidies (ASCM).
(i) Grant support to a specific commodity
4. First, the United States mistakenly interprets the phrase "grant support to a specific commodity".
5. In paragraph 71 of its Submission, the United States says that counter-cyclical payments and crop insurance payments do not constitute "support to a specific commodity" because they are not linked to specific commodity but are based on historical acreage and payment yields.3
6. The United States contends that "support to a specific commodity", in Article 13(b)(ii), means "product-specific support". Its argument is thus based on trying to incorporate the phrase "product-

1 "Third party Submission by Argentina", paragraph 2. 2 First Written Submission of the United States of America, 11 July 2003, Section III.D. 3 Ibid., paragraph 115.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-21
specific support" into Article 13(b)(ii) when the phrase is not to be found in the wording of the article.4
7. If the negotiators had meant to say that "product-specific support" was exempt, they would have introduced that phrase into the wording of the article, but they did not do so.5 Hence, AA Article 13(b)(ii) refers to a Member's non-Green Box domestic support measures, including domestic support measures granted only to individual specific products and also those relating to several specific products.
8. In other words, "support to a specific commodity", in Article 13(b)(ii), includes any non-Green Box domestic support measure providing identifiable support to an individual commodity, regardless of whether the measure can provide support to a larger number of commodities.6
9. In its argument, the US ignores the most relevant context of Article 13(b)(ii), namely the chapeau, which refers not to "product-specific support" but to "domestic support measures" in general. This means that the measures which, under Article 13(b)(ii) are relevant in determining whether a Member has granted support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year necessarily includes non-product-specific domestic support.
10. The US interpretation would mean no claim could be made against any Amber Box domestic support measure granted to more than one commodity. The US argument would thus allow Members to make enormous increases in domestic support to a relatively small number of commodities (such as the ten crops covered by the counter-cyclical payments programme), something which is inconsistent with the object and purpose of the AA, namely, cutting down the level of domestic support, as is apparent from the Preamble.7
11. Argentina considers that "support to a specific commodity", in Article 13(b)(ii), indicates that, in calculating the domestic support granted by a Member, the support must relate to a particular or precise commodity, regardless of whether the support is product-specific or specific to more than one product.8
12. Contrary to the US suggestion, the phrase "support to a specific commodity" does not mean "support exclusively or only" to a specific commodity. The fact that, through the same domestic
4 According to the Appellate Body in the India-Patents Case (WT/DS50/AB/R, adopted 16 January 1998, paragraph 45):
"The duty of a treaty interpreter is to examine the words of the treaty to determine the intentions of the parties. This should be done in accordance with the principles of treaty interpretation set out in Article 31 of the Vienna Convention. But these principles of interpretation neither require nor condone the imputation into a treaty of words that are not there or the importation into a treaty of concepts that were not intended". (Emphasis added)
5 "... had Members intended to exclude non-product specific support they would surely have said so", "Third Party Submission of New Zealand", 14 July 2003, paragraph 2.21.
6 In this respect, Argentina agrees with New Zealand: "... New Zealand sees no basis on which to suggest that support to a specific commodity should be excluded simply because other commodities may receive similar support". Third-party submission of New Zealand, 15 July 2003, paragraph 2.23.
7 "... the above-mentioned long-term objective is to provide substantial progressive reductions in agricultural support and protection sustained over an agreed period of time, resulting in correcting and preventing restrictions and distortions in world agricultural markets" (Agreement on Agriculture, third preambular paragraph).
8 Australia's Third Party Submission to the Panel, 15 July 2003, paragraph 23: "... the ordinary meaning of this phrase ("To a specific commodity"), read in its context and in light of the object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture, is support granted to an individual agricultural commodity covered by AA Annex 1, such as upland cotton, whether through product specific, or non-product specific, support".

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-22
support measures, the United States grants support to different products does not cancel out the fact that part of the support is granted to one specific product.
(ii) Support "decided during the 1992 marketing year"
13. After analysing the phrase "that decided during the 1992 marketing year", the United States reaches the conclusion that the phrase does not relate to support actually provided to a specific product during that year9, but to support determined during the 1992 marketing year and that it consisted in "deciding" or "determining" a level of income support for cotton producers of US$0.72 per pound.
14. With this interpretation, the United States can get around the need to respond to Brazil's contention10 - supported by Argentina11 - that the US budgetary outlays on domestic support for the cotton sector for the 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 marketing years were far in excess of the US$1,994 million granted in 1992.
15. Argentina considers that, under Article 13(b)(ii), the word "decided" means a decision to make payments. The US argument ignores the fact that the text first uses the term "grant support" with reference to the support granted or provided to a specific commodity during the period of implementation (1995-2003). The phrase "grant support", however, is necessarily tied in with the support "decided during the 1992 marketing year"; otherwise, there would be no basis for comparison if one case involved the support granted and the other involved only the support scheduled.
16. In this connection, Argentina contends that the word "decided", in Article 13(b)(ii), should not be interpreted in such a way that the per pound guaranteed price for commodity producers (scheduled support) is the factor to be taken into consideration in determining the amount of support granted. If the criterion advanced by the United States were accepted, it would mean that an unlimited amount of domestic support could be granted to each product provided the total AMS is not exceeded.
17. In other words, the comparison required in Article 13(b)(ii) necessarily entails comparing the same type of support in each of the periods in question (period of implementation versus 1992 marketing year), in other words "comparing the comparable". The "support granted" in each marketing year during the period of implementation must necessarily be tied in with the budgetary outlays in those years.
18. In this respect, the definition of "granted" formulated by the Appellate Body in the "Brazil-Aircraft" case is relevant, namely that it is "something actually provided" and, thus, "to determine the amount of export subsidies "granted" in a particular year, we believe that the actual amounts provided by a government, and not just those authorized or appropriated in its budget for that year, is the proper measure ... Therefore, ... we believe that the proper reference is to actual expenditures by a government ...".
19. Similarly, Argentina considers that, under AA Article 13(b)(ii), the definition of the term "support granted" must refer to a government's actual expenditures and not to a scheduled level of costs or a rate of support per unit of production.
20. Accordingly, Argentina takes the view that the support "decided during the 1992 marketing year" refers to payments actually made during that marketing year.
9 First Written Submission of the United States of America, paragraph 94: "... no amount of outlays was 'decided' ... during the 1992 marketing year ...".
10 First Written Submission by Brazil, paragraphs 144-149. 11 Third Party Submission by Argentina, paragraphs 64-65.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-23
(iii) The time dimension of Peace Clause protection
21. In contrast to the US interpretation, Argentina contends that the domestic support measures granted in any of the marketing years in the period from 1995 to 2003 are relevant in determining compliance with Article 13(b)(ii). In this connection, we consider that any injurious effects of the subsidies are extended time-wise.
22. An interpretation like the one postulated by the United States would seriously restrict the possibility of questioning whether such subsidies are consistent with ASCM Articles 5 and 6, while effects causing injury, nullification or impairment or serious prejudice can be linked to domestic support measures granted in previous marketing years.
(b) Annex II of the Agreement on Agriculture
(i) Interpretation of paragraph 1
23. The United States claims that its direct payments programme is in conformity with AA Annex II12 and, therefore, is exempt from measures under the protection afforded by Article 13(a). In reaching this conclusion, however, the United States makes a mistaken interpretation of paragraph 1 of AA Annex II.
24. The United States maintains that the structure of this provision, where the second sentence starts with the word "Accordingly", suggests that measures that conform to the two basic criteria set out in paragraph 1(a) and (b), plus the policy-specific criteria and conditions set out in the subsequent paragraphs of Annex II are designed to meet the "fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production"13.
25. Argentina considers this interpretation to be erroneous, since the text of the first sentence establishes a clear obligation that the domestic support measures to be exempted from the reduction commitments "... shall meet the fundamental requirement that they have no ... trade-distorting effect or effects on production ...". In Argentina's opinion, the language of this first sentence establishes a general requirement governing the application of all Green Box measures.
26. The structure of paragraph 1 of AA Annex 2 thus creates four types of obligation:
(i) The fundamental requirement of no, or at least minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production;
(ii) the support given in a government-financed programme does not entail transfers from consumers;
(iii) the support does not have the effect of providing producers with price support; and
(iv) the policy-specific criteria and conditions set out in paragraphs 2 to 13 of Annex 2 are also taken into account.
27. In this connection, Argentina believes that Green Box measures must respect the guiding principle of avoiding trade-distorting or production effects or at most minimal effects. A measure that meets the two basic criteria set out in paragraph 1(a) and (b), plus the policy-specific criteria and conditions set out in the subsequent paragraphs of Annex 2 could also be at variance with the general
12 First Written Submission by the United States of America, paragraph 53. 13 Ibid., paragraph 50.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-24
principle. The opposite interpretation would render meaningless the first sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 2, which the text describes as a "fundamental requirement".
28. Therefore, it is Argentina's view that, however much the United States claims that its direct payments programme conforms to the requirement established in the second sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 214, since it does not meet the fundamental requirement established in the first sentence it cannot be viewed as a Green Box programme.
29. In this respect, Argentina concurs with Australia and New Zealand that the first sentence of Annex 2 paragraph 1, imposes a stringent standard by requiring that the measures to be exempted from reduction commitments must, as a primary or essential condition, not artificially alter trade or production.15
30. Consequently, if a domestic support measure leads to a higher level of production of trade in a particular product or group of products, the measure does not meet the standard established in Annex 2, Article 1.
31. It should be emphasized that the US has in no sense answered the statements by Brazil in paragraphs 183 to 191 of its Submission concerning the trade-distorting and production effects of the direct payments programme, according to studies made by the US Department of Agriculture's own economists.
32. In other words, because the direct payments programme does have trade-distorting and production effects, it cannot be included among the domestic support measures exempted from reduction commitments.
(ii) Interpretation of paragraph 6(b)
33. The United States maintains that the Production Flexibility Contract Payments (PFC) and Direct Payments programmes are not tied in with production and, therefore, are not Green Box domestic support.
34. Argentina considers that the alleged "flexibility" of producers to plant different crops is in fact seriously restrictive. The amount of payments made depends on the type of production. Indeed, particular crops (fruits, vegetables, etc.) are excluded from these programmes. The effect of this is to channel production to the remaining crops, which do benefit from the programmes. This shows that the amount of the payments made is linked to the type of product sown, as Argentina pointed out in its Third Party Submission16 and, therefore, the payments are not in conformity with AA Annex 2 paragraph 6(b).
(c) Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture does not exclude export credit guarantees from the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture and the Agreement on Subsidies.
14 Ibid., paragraphs 64-68. 15 Australia's Third Party Submission to the Panel, 15 July 2003, paragraph 31: "... AA Annex 2.1 imposes a stringent standard. Annex 2.1 requires that such measures must, as a primary or essential condition, not "bias" or "unnaturally alter trade or production ..."; Third Party Submission of New Zealand, 15 July 2003, paragraph 1.08: " ... In New Zealand's view it is critical that the integrity of the disciplines on "Green Box" measures are not weakened or their legitimate purpose undermined through the inclusion of measures that fail to meet the strict requirements of Annex 2, including the fundamental criterion that such measures are non-trade or production distorting ...". 16 Third Party Submission by Argentina, 15 July 2003, paragraphs 54-57.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-25
35. The United States asserts that the text of Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture permits Members to continue export credit guarantee programmes unaffected by export subsidy disciplines,17 since the text reflects the fact of that, during the Uruguay Round, Members came to no agreement on the substantive disciplines applicable. In other words, the United States contends that the actual text of Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture indicates that the export credit guarantee programmes are not subject in any way to the Agreement's export subsidy disciplines.18
36. In this regard, Argentina would point out that the fact that WTO Members are negotiating disciplines in order to implement Article 10.2 does not in any way support the US reading to the effect that Article 10.2 excludes export credit guarantees from the general disciplines on export subsidies.19 A commitment "to work towards the development" of specific international disciplines on the granting export credits, export guarantees or insurance programmes is not the same as excluding them from the general disciplines on export subsidies. If that had been the intention, then the negotiators would have expressly said so.
37. Contrary to the US contention, Argentina does not find any indication of this type in the wording of Article 10.2. The fact that the negotiators did not include an express reference to the effect that export credit guarantees are not included in the definition of export subsidies or are not subject to the disciplines established in AA Articles 3.3, 8 or 10.1 means that such disciplines apply to export credit support measures.
38. In other words, in conformity with the wording of AA Article 10.2, export credit guarantees are not exempt from the general disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture, and where the measures are not in conformity with that Agreement, from the disciplines of the Agreement on Subsidies.
39. This interpretation is reinforced by the immediate context and the object and purpose of AA Article 10.2. Paragraph 2 forms part of Article 10, which is entitled "Prevention of Circumvention of Export Subsidy Commitments". Paragraph 1 of Article 10 establishes that export subsidies not listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9 "... shall not be applied in a manner which results in ... circumvention of export subsidy commitments ...". This provision imposes disciplines on export credit guarantees, just as it imposes disciplines on the whole universe of export subsidies not covered by Article 9.1.
40. In turn, the object and purpose of AA Article 10 is to prevent any form of circumvention of export subsidy commitments.20 Consequently, the US interpretation of Article 10.2 is completely at variance on the context of the provision and the object and purpose of AA Article 10, since it contributes to circumvention of the export subsidy commitment by excluding an entire category of export subsidies from the general disciplines.
41. Lastly, contrary to what the US maintains,21 the fact that an export subsidy is not included in AA Article 9.1 does not mean that it is not an export subsidy, for Article 9.1 is not an exhaustive list,
17 First Written Submission of the United States of America, paragraph 160. 18 Ibid., paragraph 164. 19 Third Party Submission of Canada, 15 July 2003, paragraph 53: "This provision (Article 10.2) sets out an intention on the part of Members to undertake further work regarding these measures ­ the simple fact of agreeing to do so, however, does not amount to a permission to use those measures to confer export subsidies without consequence and without limit. The US interpretation of Article 10.2 ignores the important context provided by Article 10.1. It also directly contradicts the stated object and purpose of Article 10 as a whole ...". Similarly, in its Third Party Submission, New Zealand states: "Nor does Article 10.2 in any way suggest that it provides an exception from the disciplines of Article 10.1...", paragraph 3.15. 20 Article 10.3 reverses the burden of proof in cases of export subsidies under the Agreement on Agriculture where exports are in excess of the reduction commitment level. Article 10.4 establishes disciplines on international food aid. 21 First Written Submission of the United States of America, paragraphs 161-162.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-26
as is evidenced by the wording of Article 10.1.22 Nor does it mean that such an export subsidy is not subject to the export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture. 42. Argentina agrees with the European Committees23 that Article 10.2 makes it clear export credit guarantees are not one of the types of export subsidy listed in Article 9.1 and, in that connection, Article 10.1 establishes that non-listed export subsidy must not be applied in a manner which results in circumvention of export subsidy commitments. 43. Hence, as the European Communities contend, wherever export credit guarantees are export subsidies not listed in Article 9.1, those guarantees could be applied in a manner which would result in circumvention of commitments and, therefore, would be prohibited under Article 10.1. III. CONCLUSION 44. In accordance with the foregoing, Argentina considers that the United States has mistakenly interpreted the provisions of the Peace Clause, in particular in Article 13(b)(ii), has failed to bear the burden of proving that the domestic support measures it granted to cotton during the 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 marketing years were not in excess of the support "decided during the 1992 marketing year". 45. Second, Argentina considers that the US interpretations regarding Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture are mistaken and that, therefore, the Direct Payments and PFC programmes do not fall under the protection of Article 13(a) of the Agreement on Agriculture for Green Box measures. 46. Third, Argentina considers that the United States export credit guarantee schemes (GSM 102, 103 and SGCP) constitute export subsidies subject to the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture (Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1) and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (Article 3.1(a) and 3.2).
22 Third Party Submission of Canada, 15 July 2003, paragraph 32; "Article 9 of the Agriculture Agreement lists and describes certain export subsidies that are subject to reduction commitments. All other export subsidies fall within the scope of Article 10-1...".
23 First Third Party Submission by the European Communities, 15 July 2003, Section V.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-27
ANNEX C-6
ORAL STATEMENT BY AUSTRALIA
24 July 2003
Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel,
1. I appreciate this further opportunity to present Australia's views on matters at issue in this dispute.
2. In this statement, I will provide some elaboration of Australia's views on the meaning of Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture. I will also address some of the matters raised in the First Written Submission of the United States and in the First Third Party Submission of the European Communities.
Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel,
3. I will begin with matters relating to the meaning of Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture.
4. As Australia noted in its Written Submission1, the word "decided" appears twice in the operative provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture ­ in subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of Article 13(b). Further, the immediate context for the word "decided" is exactly the same in each case: "provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year". Yet Article 13(b)(iii) deals with a completely different type of action: one based on non-violation or impairment under GATT Article XXIII:1(b).
5. Thus, Australia believes that it will be necessary for the Panel to consider two key threshold questions.
6. Firstly, is the meaning of the phrase "provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year" the same in each of Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii)?
7. Australia recalls that the phrase, as well as draft text for what became Article 13, first appeared in the "Blair House Accord". Also included in the Accord were provisions concerning the EEC ­ Oilseeds dispute.2
8. In Australia's view, that dispute is crucially relevant to the interpretation of Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii).
9. Australia recalls that it clearly understood in the resumed Uruguay Round agriculture negotiations in 1993 that the words "decided during the 1992 marketing year" had been chosen to
1 Third Party Submission of Australia, paragraph 26. 2 European Economic Community ­ Payments and Subsidies Paid to Processors and Producers of Oilseeds and Related Animal-Feed Proteins ("EEC ­ Oilseeds"), Report of the Panel, adopted 25 January 1990, BISD 37S/86, and Follow-Up on the Panel Report "European Community ­ Payments and Subsidies Paid to Processors and Producers of Oilseeds and Related Animal-Feed Proteins, DS28/R, BISD 39S/91.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-28
incorporate into the text of Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) the sense of expectations of "conditions of price competition" as this had been interpreted and applied in the EEC ­ Oilseeds dispute.
10. The panel in EEC ­ Oilseeds described the purpose of GATT Article XXIII:1(b) in the following terms:
... The panel noted that these provisions, as conceived by the drafters and applied by the contracting parties, serve mainly to protect the value of tariff concessions.[...] The idea underlying them is that the improved competitive opportunities that can legitimately be expected from a tariff concession can be frustrated not only by measures proscribed by the General Agreement but also by measures consistent with that Agreement. ...3
11. That Panel went on to say:
... The Panel considered that the main value of a tariff concession is that it provides an assurance of better market access through improved price competition. Contracting parties negotiate tariff concessions primarily to obtain that advantage. They must therefore be assumed to base their tariff negotiations on the expectation that the price effect of the tariff concessions will not be systematically offset. ...4
12. In any case, having regard to the customary principles of interpretation, Australia considers that the phrase "provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year" must have the same meaning in both Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii).
13. Thus, there is a second threshold question that the Panel needs to consider. That question is: could conditions of price competition for the purposes of a non-violation nullification or impairment claim be assessed solely on the basis of budgetary outlay figures, as argued by Brazil, or on the basis of a rate of payment, as argued by the United States? In Australia's view, both factors put forward by Brazil and the United States would properly form a part of that assessment, but not the whole.
Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel,
14. I would now like to comment on some matters raised in the First Written Submission of the United States.
15. Firstly, Australia disagrees with the United States' approach to interpreting the "peace clause" and the meaning of "exempt from action based on".5
16. If the United States' interpretation is correct and the WTO Agreement negotiators intended the interpretation offered by the United States, surely the negotiators would have included provisions clarifying how such situations should be resolved? At the very least, surely Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture would have been listed in the Special or Additional Rules and Procedures Contained in the Covered Agreements at Appendix 2 to the Dispute Settlement Understanding? Yet the negotiators did neither of these things.
17. The United States argues as well that its interpretation is supported by the fact that the peace clause applies "[n]otwithstanding the provisions of GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and
3 EEC ­ Oilseeds, paragraph 144. 4 EEC ­ Oilseeds, paragraph 148. 5 First Written Submission of the United States, paragraph 33.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-29
Countervailing Measures".6 However, the United States ignores that, for its argument to be valid, the peace clause would also have to apply "notwithstanding the provisions of the Dispute Settlement Understanding".
18. The United States argues too that Brazil is in error by asserting that the peace clause itself "provides no positive obligations".7 In Australia's view, however, this argument confuses obligations and conditions: the United States is equating a binding requirement to act in a certain way with a prerequisite for the availability of a right or privilege. Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture does not of itself establish any binding requirements with which WTO Members are required to comply.
19. That confusion between rights and obligations continues when the United States argues that "Brazil's approach would produce bizarre results".8 Indeed, the United States' arguments could be considered to confirm the nature of Article 13 as an affirmative defence. Had Brazil alleged a breach of the United States' obligations under Article 6, Brazil would have had the initial burden of making a prima facie case of inconsistency. Article 13, however, is a right or privilege available to the United States, provided that its measures fully conform to the relevant conditions. Thus, it is for the United States to demonstrate that it is entitled to invoke that right or privilege.
20. Secondly, the United States argues that "support to a specific commodity" is equivalent to "product-specific support".9
21. The United States asserts that the definition of Aggregate Measurement of Support ­ or AMS ­ at Article 1(a), and Article 6 concerning Domestic Support Commitments, provide relevant context. The United States asserts that because the calculation of AMS, and exemptions from Current Total AMS, differentiate between product specific and non-product specific domestic support, "support" in the context of Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) means product-specific AMS.
22. Australia does not agree. AMS is defined by Article 1(a) to mean "the annual level of support ... provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product". However, Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) refer to "support to a specific commodity".
23. Had the negotiators intended that "support to a specific commodity" in the context of Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) mean product-specific AMS only, they would have said so in the text. They did not. Further, the United States' argument ignores that a Member's reduction commitments include both product specific and non-product specific domestic support measures unless they are exempt from inclusion.
24. Thus, in Australia's view, "support to a specific commodity" means: all non-"green box" support that benefits a specific commodity, whether that support be through product specific, or nonproduct specific, programmes. Indeed, Australia believes that "support to a specific commodity" in the context of Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) can include forms of support additional to those captured in an AMS calculation.
25. It follows, of course, that Australia considers ­ in the context of this dispute ­ that the portions of the direct payment and counter-cyclical payment programmes that benefit upland cotton should be included in the calculation of "support to a specific commodity" within the meaning of Article 13(b)(ii). Moreover, Australia notes that the counter-cyclical payment programme provides a
6 First Written Submission of the United States, paragraph 39. 7 First Written Submission of the United States, Paragraph 43. 8 First Written Submission of the United States, paragraph 44. 9 First Written Submission of the United States, paragraph 78.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-30
target price of 72.4 cents per pound for upland cotton,10 and that entitlements to "Step 2" payments and some other domestic support programmes are additional to the target price, as they were to the 1992 target price of 72.9 cents per pound.
26. Thirdly, the United States argues that direct payments under the 2002 Farm Act meet the criteria of Annex 2 Decoupled Income Support payments. Australia has already addressed the issue of planting restrictions on fruit and vegetables and wild rice in its Written Submission.
27. The United States argues that "eligibility for direct payments is defined by clearly defined criteria ... in a defined and fixed base period" and that "payment yields and base acres are defined in the 2002 Act and fixed for the duration of the legislation". 11 The United States' interpretation means that a WTO Member could re-define and re-fix a base period every time it introduced new domestic support legislation. This cannot be a correct interpretation of the provisions of paragraph 6 of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture.
28. Fourthly, the United States argues that "a Member may choose to provide `amber box' support in any ... manner so long as that Member's Current Total AMS does not exceed ... [its] commitment level".12
29. Australia disagrees. The United States' argument ignores that Article 13(b)(ii) does not exempt non-"green box" domestic support measures from actions based on Article 3 of the SCM Agreement. It also ignores the provisions of Article 21.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture. In an analogous situation in the EC ­ Bananas dispute, the Appellate Body said: "... the provisions of the GATT 1994 ... apply ... except to the extent that the Agreement on Agriculture contains specific provisions dealing specifically with the same matter".13 The Appellate Body went on to say in that dispute:
... [T]he negotiators of the Agreement on Agriculture did not hesitate to specify ... limitations elsewhere in that agreement; had they intended to do so with respect to Article XIII of the GATT 1994, they could, and presumably would, have done so. ...14
30. The Appellate Body's statement is equally applicable in the context of this dispute. Had the negotiators of the Agreement on Agriculture intended that non-"green box" domestic support measures be "exempt from actions based on" Article 3 of the SCM Agreement, they would have said so. The negotiators did expressly exempt export subsidies from actions based on SCM Article 3 to the extent that such export subsidies conformed fully to the provisions of Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture. In Australia's view, therefore, the omission from Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture of an express exemption from actions based on SCM Article 3 for local content subsidies has meaning.
31. Fifthly, the United States has requested that the Panel issue a preliminary ruling that Production Flexibility Contract and Market Loss Assistance payments are not within the Panel's terms of reference because these programmes have expired. The fact that a measure has expired cannot be sufficient to remove it from the Panel's purview. If the Panel were to grant the United States' request solely on that basis, it would mean that any Member could authorise WTO-inconsistent domestic support programmes through short-lived measures and avoid the consequences of such actions.
10 Section 1104, 2002 FSRI Act, Exhibit Bra-29. 11 First Written Submission of the United States, paragraph 67. 12 First Written Submission of the United States, paragraph 144. 13 European Communities ­ Regime for the Importation, Sale and Distribution of Bananas, Report of the Appellate Body, WT/DS27/AB/R, paragraph 155. 14 _EC ­ Bananas, paragraph 157.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-31
Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel,
32. The final matter on which I will comment today concerns the Third Party Submission of the European Communities and its arguments in relation to the interpretation of the first sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture. The European Communities argues that the first sentence "simply signals the objective of Annex 2" and does not set out an independent obligation.15
33. That argument ignores the plain meaning of the text and renders the first sentence of paragraph 1 inutile, which of course a treaty interpreter may not do. If an exemption from reduction commitments is being claimed for any domestic support measures, the first sentence says they "shall meet the fundamental requirement that they have no, or at most minimal, trade-distorting effects or effects on production". As explained in Australia's written submission,16 a fundamental requirement is a primary or essential condition. To interpret a "fundamental requirement" other than as a separate and independent obligation would be contrary to the plain meaning of the words and thus to the normal rules of treaty interpretation. The use of the words "shall meet" establishes an express obligation to comply with the specified condition that such measures not, or only minimally, bias or unnaturally alter trade or production.17
34. The European Communities argues that the word "accordingly" at the beginning of the second sentence of paragraph 1 links the `fundamental requirement' in the first sentence with the `basic criteria' in the second sentence" and thus makes clear that the fundamental requirement is complied with if the basic criteria in the second sentence and the policy-specific criteria set out in paragraphs 2 to 13 are met.18
35. However, the meanings for "accordingly" cited by the European Communities ­ "in accordance with the logical premises" and "correspondingly" ­ do not compel the interpretation it has offered. Moreover, there are other, equally valid meanings of the word "accordingly", provided by the same dictionary, such as "harmoniously" and "agreeably".19
36. It is possible to interpret the whole of paragraph 1 to Annex 2 so as to give effect to all of its provisions:
 domestic support measures for which exemption from the reduction commitments is claimed shall not, or shall only minimally, distort trade or production; and
 to the extent that measures of the type described in paragraphs 2 to 13 of the Annex are consistent and harmonious with that fundamental requirement and conform to the basic and policy-specific criteria as set out in the second sentence, they are exempt from reduction commitments.
37. Thus, notwithstanding that they may meet the basic and policy-specific criteria set out in paragraphs 1 and 6 of the Annex, a Member may not claim Decoupled Income Support payments as "green box" where those payments do not meet the fundamental requirement that they shall not, or shall only minimally, distort trade or production. Such could be the case, for example, where the level of Decoupled Income Support payments are sufficient to affect directly producer decisions concerning the allocation of economic resources to production of a particular commodity.
15 First Third Party Submission by the European Communities, paragraph 15. 16 Australia's Third Party Submission to the Panel, paragraph 31. 17 Australia's Third Party Submission to the Panel, paragraphs 31-32. 18 First Third Party Submission by the European Communities, paragraph 20. 19 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Volume I, Ed. Lesley Brown, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1993, page 15.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-32
Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel, 38. Should you have questions on any matters concerning Australia's Written Submission and Oral Statement, I would be pleased to take these on notice and arrange for written answers to be provided. Thank you, Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-33
ANNEX C-7
THIRD PARTY ORAL STATEMENT OF BENIN
24 July 2003
Mr. Chairman, members of the Panel,
It is my honour to represent Benin at this Third Party session today. The other two members of our delegation are Mr. Eloi Laourou of the Permanent Mission of Benin, and Mr. Brendan McGivern of White & Case, our legal adviser.
Although Benin acceded to the WTO back in 1996, this marks our first entry into WTO dispute settlement. We have been led to take this unprecedented step by the magnitude of the threat posed by US cotton subsidies, and the highly damaging effect that such subsidies have on the exports and economy of our country.
In our third party submission, we sought to provide to the Panel, at the earliest possible stage, information on the impact of the WTO-inconsistent US subsidies on Benin. In our view, this provides essential additional context to the issues facing the panel.
I do not intend to repeat what was in our submission, but it is worth highlighting some key facts.
The importance of the cotton sector to Benin can hardly be overstated. As noted in our submission, it accounts for 90 per cent of our agricultural exports, and three-quarters of our export earnings over the past four years. It generates 25 per cent of national revenues. In total, about a million people in Benin ­ out of a total population of six million ­ depend on cotton or cotton-related activities. Cotton plays a particularly important role in rural areas, where national poverty reaches its highest levels.
Mr. Chairman, Members of the Panel: the results of US cotton subsidies are readily apparent in West Africa. The United States provides huge, and WTO-inconsistent, subsidies for cotton. This leads to an oversupply of cotton on the world market, and a consequent decline in prices. Moreover, when cotton from Benin enters world markets, it must compete against massively-subsidized US cotton.
The dollar value of these subsidies dwarfs all other economy activity in Benin. As indicated in our submission, the subsidies paid by the United States to its 25,000 cotton farmers exceed the entire gross national income of Benin ­ and indeed the other countries in the region as well.
This demonstrates, rather dramatically, the impossibility of Benin ever competing with such subsidies. It is inconceivable that any developing country ­ let alone a least-developed country in West Africa ­ could ever match the virtually limitless resources of the United States.
Therefore, for us, the solution to this problem lies in the WTO. We ask simply that the United States respect its WTO obligations regarding subsidies.
Mr. Chairman, we agree with Brazil that the United States cannot invoke the peace clause to bar the claims that have been advanced in this dispute. We agree that the peace clause constitutes an

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-34
affirmative defence, and that the burden lies on the United States to demonstrate that has met all the conditions for the successful invocation of this affirmative defence. This it has failed to do.
In any event, whether the peace clause constitutes an affirmative defence, as we believe, or is part of the "balance of rights and obligations of Members", as the United States argues, the result is the same. Brazil's First Submission has established, clearly and unambiguously, that the United States is in breach of its WTO obligations. The US First Submission has provided no convincing rebuttal of Brazil's claims.
Mr. Chairman, Members of the Panel:
In its submission of July 11, the United States argued that the phrase "support to a specific commodity" should be understood to mean "product-specific support". However, the term "productspecific" does not appear in Article 13(b)(ii). If the drafters of the Agreement on Agriculture had wanted to use this term in Article 13(b)(ii), they obviously could have done so, as they did elsewhere in Agreement, such as in Article 6(4), or in Annex 3. Moreover, if the US interpretation were accepted, measures providing support to more than one commodity could not be challenged under Article 13(b)(ii). This elevates form over substance, and is contrary to both the language and the object and purpose of this provision.
Finally, the United States asks this Panel to exclude from its terms of reference certain measures that it argues were not the subject of consultations. We were not part of the consultations, and will not delve into the facts of this disagreement. However, Benin would recall the statement of the Appellate Body in Brazil Aircraft (DS46):
"We do not believe....that Articles 4 and 6 of the DSU, or paragraphs 1 to 4 of the SCM Agreement, require a precise and exact identity between the specific measures that were the subject of consultations and the specific measures identified in the request for the establishment of a panel. As stated by the Panel, `[o]ne purpose of consultations, as set forth in Article 4.3 of the SCM Agreement, is to `clarify the facts of the situation', and it can be expected that information obtained during the course of consultations may enable the complainant to focus the scope of the matter with respect to which it seeks establishment of a panel." [emphasis added]
Indeed, Benin notes that the United States itself took a similar approach in the recent Japan ­ Apples case. In the US replies to the Panel on October 16, 2002, USTR stated that:
"[T]here is no requirement in the DSU to consult on a particular claim in order to include that claim in a panel request and to have such a claim form part of the panel's terms of reference. The purpose of consultations is to provide a better understanding of the facts and circumstances of a dispute; logically, then, a party may identify new claims in the course of consultations."
Although this US reply dealt with claims rather than measures, it is consistent with the ruling of the Appellate Body in Brazil Aircraft that panels should not require a "precise and exact identity" between the measures that were the subject of consultations and the measures identified in the panel request.
Mr. Chairman, Members of the Panel:

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-35
For Benin, this dispute is of critical national importance. As we stated in our Third Party submission, we are not seeking any special and differential treatment in the present case. We are simply asking that the United States abide by the disciplines that it agreed to at the end of the Uruguay Round.
Thank you for allowing Benin to present its views to the Panel. We would be pleased to reply to any questions you may have.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-36
ANNEX C-8
THIRD PARTY ORAL STATEMENT OF CANADA
24 July 2003
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Mr. Chairman, members of the Panel, on behalf of my Government, I thank you for your consideration of Canada's views in this dispute.
2. Canada's statement today conveys our systemic interest in the interpretation of certain provisions of the Agriculture Agreement and the SCM Agreement regarding certain aspects of Brazil's claims. The first two points we address relate to US domestic support measures and the applicability of the Peace Clause. In this respect, we set out why:
 first, the updating of the base period for US direct payments renders these payments inconsistent with paragraphs 6(a) and (b) of Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement; and
 second, US counter-cyclical payments to producers of upland cotton must be counted as "support to a specific commodity" under Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement.
3. The last point we address is whether there is any exemption for US export credit guarantee programmes from US export subsidy commitments under the Agriculture Agreement. Here, we set out why:
 first, item (j) of the SCM Agreement may not be interpreted a contrario to deem export credit guarantee practices as not providing export subsidies under Article 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement; and
 second, Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement does not exempt export subsidies granted under export credit guarantee programmes from US export subsidy commitments in the Agriculture Agreement.
II. US DOMESTIC AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT MEASURES
A. TO BE EXEMPT UNDER ANNEX 2, DIRECT PAYMENTS MUST HAVE THE SAME BASE PERIOD AS PFC PAYMENTS
4. We turn first to US direct payments. The United States defends these measures by asserting, among other things, that the 2002 FSRI Act redefines and fixes the base period for the duration of the legislation.1 According to the United States, direct payments therefore fully conform to Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement.
5. This, in Canada's view, raises form over substance. In addition to the views we provided in our written third party submission, Canada observes that US direct payments also do not conform to the base period requirement in paragraphs 6(a) and (b) of Annex 2. The structure of the PFC payment
1 US First Written Submission, para. 67.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-37
and direct payment programmes are essentially the same2, so are the payment parameters.3 The applicable base period therefore is that for PFC payments. However, the United States allows base acreage determining the receipt and the amount of direct payments to be updated.4 The base period is therefore not "fixed", contrary to subparagraph (a). The amount of the payments may also be increased based on the volume of production undertaken by a producer in a year after the applicable base period, contrary to subparagraph (b).
6. The United States itself demonstrates the linkage between PFC payments and direct payments; they are closely related and successor programmes.5 Yet, the United States takes the position that because the payments are continued under a separate piece of legislation and new regulations, an updating of the base period does not affect their exempt status.6 In Canada's view, such formalistic arguments cannot prevail.
B. COUNTER-CYCLICAL PAYMENTS ARE "SUPPORT TO A SPECIFIC COMMODITY"
7. Mr. Chairman and members of the Panel, the formalism of US arguments does not stop there. In an effort to avoid the logical conclusion that counter-cyclical payments "grant support to a specific commodity" within the meaning of Article 13 of the Agriculture Agreement, the United States cites varied meanings of the term "specific" and inappropriately incorporates into Article 13 concepts relating to the calculation of the AMS. These arguments are an attempt to detract from the plain text of Article 13 and its straight-forward application to the facts of this case.
8. In Canada's view, counter-cyclical payments "grant support to a specific commodity" under Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agriculture Agreement.7 It is hard to see how a measure that grants support that is specific to a "specific commodity" would not be included in the assessment under Article 13(b). It is uncontested that the US measure provides payments in an amount determined by target prices that are specific to certain covered products.8 The setting of commodity-specific target prices necessarily leads to different levels of support for different products. The cotton-specific support granted in this respect must be taken into account for the purposes of Article 13(b).
III. US EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMMES
9. I now turn to US export credit guarantee programmes.
10. In Canada's written third party submission we set out the applicable standard for determining whether transactions under these programmes are subsidized within the meaning of Articles 1(e) and 10.1 of the Agriculture Agreement. Canada takes no position on the facts in this respect, but notes that USDA's own description of its guarantee programmes implies that a benefit is conferred. I quote: "The programmes encourage exports to buyers in countries where credit is necessary to maintain or increase US sales, but where financing may not be available without CCC guarantees."9 The Panel should assess CCC premiums in the light of this admitted reality.
2 See Brazil First Written Submission, para. 182; Third Party Submission of New Zealand, para. 2.26; Third Party Submission of Australia, paras. 47-48.
3 US First Written Submission, paras. 58-63. 4 US First Written Submission, para. 59. 5 US First Written Submission, fn. 47. 6 US First Written Submission, para. 67. 7 See also Exhibit Br-27 ("Title I - Commodity Programmes"; "Counter-cyclical payments for wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, rice, and oilseeds" (emphasis added)). 8 See US First Written Submission, para. 117. 9 USDA, "Export Credit Guarantee Programmes", FAS Online at http://www.fas.usda.gov/excredits/exp-cred-guar.html, (second sentence) [Exhibit CDA-3].

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-38
11. Today, Canada addresses the two exemptions alleged by the United States in support of its assertion that the US programmes do not grant export subsidies in violation of US export subsidy commitments under Articles 8 and 10.1 the Agriculture Agreement. The claimed exemptions are the following:
 First, item (j) of the SCM Agreement sanctions any US export subsidy provided through CCCguaranteed credit transactions because the programmes come within the scope of item (j) yet do not meet the standard it establishes. According to the United States, item (j) may be interpreted a contrario to allow subsidized export credit transactions. It follows for the United States that its programmes do not confer export subsidies within the meaning of Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement and Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement;
 Second, Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement exempts outright any subsidized export credit transactions from US export subsidy commitments.
12. The panel in Brazil ­ Aircraft considered the first type of alleged exemption at length in its first implementation report. The United States was a third party in that case, and argued for an a contrario interpretation of the first paragraph of item (k) of the Illustrative List.10 The panel rejected all arguments in this respect and concluded that the provision could not be used to establish that a prohibited export subsidy under the SCM Agreement is otherwise permitted.
13. The panel's reasoning in that case applies with equal force here. Briefly, the panel found that:
 First, Annex I is purely "illustrative" and does not purport to exhaustively list all export subsidy practices11,
 Second, a measure that falls within the scope of Annex I is deemed to be a prohibited export subsidy such that where a Member demonstrates that the measure meets the standard in any of the listed items, it does not also have to demonstrate that the measure comes within the scope of Articles 1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement12, and
 Third, footnote 5 of the SCM Agreement provides that practices described in Annex I may be properly considered not to constitute an export subsidy only in two situations. The first situation is where an affirmative statement in the Agreement provides that the measure in question is not an export subsidy; the second is where an affirmative statement in the Agreement provides that measures satisfying the conditions of an item in Annex I are not prohibited.13 Footnote 5 reads "Measures referred to in Annex I as not constituting export subsidies shall not be prohibited under this or any other provision of this Agreement".
14. In its second implementation report in Brazil ­ Aircraft, the panel applied the same reasoning.14 Applying this reasoning to the case at hand, footnote 5 to the SCM Agreement precludes reliance on an a contrario interpretation of item (j) as an implied exclusion to any finding of subsidized transactions under the US programmes.
10 Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft: Recourse by Canada to Article 21.5 of the DSU, Report of the Panel, WT/DS46/RW, adopted 4 August 2000, paras. 6.24-6.67 [Brazil ­ Aircraft, First Recourse].
11 Ibid., para. 6.30. 12 Ibid., para. 6.31. 13 Ibid., paras. 6.37. 14 Brazil ­ Export Financing Programme for Aircraft: Second Recourse by Canada to Article 21.5 of the DSU, Report of the Panel, WT/DS46/RW2, adopted 23 August 2001 at paras. 5.274 and 5.275.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-39
15. Regarding Article 10.2 of the Agriculture Agreement, Canada's view is that the words of that provision speak for themselves. Members have undertaken to work towards internationally agreed disciplines to govern the provision of export credit guarantees. Nothing in that provision states that the export subsidy obligations in Article 10.1 of the Agreement do not apply to US export credit guarantee practices. Where Members have wanted to exempt measures from export subsidy obligations, they have been clear­ such as in the second paragraph of item (k) of the SCM Agreement.15 16. In addition, the US interpretation of this provision does not accord with its object and purpose. Canada shares the views of other third party participants in this dispute that the ongoing work under Article 10.2 is expected to further elaborate on current disciplines regarding export credit practices and to perhaps more clearly identify when such practices shall or shall not be deemed to confer export subsidies within the meaning of Article 1(e) of the Agriculture Agreement.16 The obvious precedent in this respect is the second paragraph of item (k) of the SCM Agreement. IV. CONCLUSION 17. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman and members of the Panel, the Panel should find that the United States rendered direct payments inconsistent with Annex 2 of the Agriculture Agreement by allowing the base period to be updated. This finding would be in addition to a finding that PFC payments and direct payments do not conform to Annex 2 because the amount of the payment is linked to the type of production after the base period. Regarding counter-cyclical payments, the Panel should find that this support to US producers of upland cotton must be counted as "support to a specific commodity" under Article 13(b)(ii) of the Agreement. Finally, regarding US export credit guarantee programmes, the Panel should confirm that neither the Agriculture Agreement nor the SCM Agreement contain an exemption for any US export credit guarantee subsidy found in this case. Were the Panel to find that such subsidies exist ­ which in Canada's view is the most likely outcome to the Panel's assessment of the facts ­ then the Panel must conclude that the United States grants export subsidies in violation of its export subsidy commitments under Articles 8 and 10.1 the Agriculture Agreement and that Article 13(c)(ii) therefore does not apply.
15 See also Brazil ­ Aircraft, First Recourse, para. 6.36. 16 See First Third Party Submission by the European Communities, para. 30 and Third Party Submission of New Zealand, paras. 3.15-3.16.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-40
ANNEX C-9
ORAL STATEMENT OF CHINA AT THE THIRD PARTY SESSION
24 July 2003
1. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and members of the Panel. China is appreciative of this opportunity to present its views on the issues raised in this Panel proceeding. In its third party written submission of 15 July, China explained its views in relation to three issues. In this statement, I will summarize China's major points.
2. The first issue that China would like to have this Panel's attention is about the burden of proof issue under the Peace Clause.
3. China agrees with Brazil's argument that the Peace Clause is an affirmative defence in nature. If the United States claims that defence, the burden of proof is on the United States.
4. Contrary to what the United States see, China believes that the Peace Clause does not impose positive obligations. Stand-alone, Annex 2 and Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture may have positive obligations; but when they are cross-referred to by the Peace Clause, they become part and parcel of conditions that must be met before a Member can move under its safety.
5. China believes the US errs on seeing no distinction between "obligation" and "condition". The Peace Clause requirement for full conformity with Article 6 and Annex 2 does not create new obligations because Members have to comply with Article 6 and Annex 2 whether Article 13 exists or not. Within the Peace Clause, these requirements do not stand to impose obligations on Members, but to set conditions precedent for a Members intending to invoke Peace Clause protection. Positive obligations to comply with these requirements, if there is any, lie under where they are, i.e. under Article 6 and Annex 2, but not under the Peace Clause.
6. China does not see any "absurdity" as described by the United States in its written submission. No such "absurdity" would be instilled into the process if at the first stage, the party alleging protection of Peace Clause for its measures is required to discharge its burden to prove that such measures do conform to the relevant Peace Clause conditions; if it cannot so prove, the measures would lose Peace Clause protection. A second stage will follow for the party claiming against the measures to establish its substantive case, without the Peace Clause shield.
7. With respect, China submits that the burden of proof issue must be resolved first. China also hopes that the above two-step approach will help this Panel and the parties to move the procedures on towards resolution of the case.
8. The second point that China made in its written submission relates to proper categorization of US Direct Payments (shortened as "DP") under the US Fair Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (shortened as "FSRI"). Allow me to shorten that act to FSRI. Without repeating the issue of burden of proof, preponderance of evidence suggests that such Direct Payments are not "Green Box" in nature.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-41
9. One of the requirements for "Green Box" Direct Payment support measures lies under Para. 6(a) of Annex 2 to the Agreement on Agriculture. The paragraph provides to the effect that eligibility shall be determined by "clearly-defined criteria" "in a defined and fixed base period".
10. The word "in" requires a link between the "criteria" and the "defined and fixed base period". In other words, to qualify for "Green Box" direct payment measure under Para. 6(a), a criterion adopted by a Member must be tied, in a chronological sense, to a starting time frame that cannot be moved up on the calendar.
11. As the United States has explained, 2002 FSRI DP allowed landowners to retain PFC base acreage under the 1996 Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act (shortened as "FAIR") and "add 1998-2001 acres of eligible oilseeds or simply declare base acreage for all covered commodities" (including upland cotton). In addition, while a landowner may elect to simply utilize acres devoted to covered commodities during the 1998-2001 period for purpose of DP, a landowner need not do so; base acres may remain those under FAIR of 1996, implying no cotton production need have occurred since the 1993-1995 period for a landowner to have "cotton base acres" Consideration the progression from PFC to DP, one can see that contrary to the US argument that "base acres are defined in the 2002 [FSRI] Act and fixed for the duration of the legislation", the requisite link between the programme acreage as a criterion and the starting time frame under the DP is broken. The change of legislation from FAIR to FSRI and the replacement of PFC with DP were utilized to for producers to leap from their previous coverage acreage, which should have been tied to the base period, to a new updated acreage in 2002.
12. Therefore, in China's opinion, preponderance of evidence proves that the US direct payments under the FSRI shall be properly categorized as non-"Green Box" measures.
13. The last issue that China considers important is about export subsidy support granted by US "Foreign Sales Corporations" for upland cotton export sales under the "FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Act of 2000". Its short name is ETI Act.
14. The ETI Act has previously been found to violate the Agreement on Agriculture and the Subsidies Agreement by both the panel and the Appellate Body in US ­ FSC (21.5) case. On 29 January 2002, the DSB adopted the panel and Appellate Body reports. Following US failure to withdraw such export subsidy support, on 7 May 2003, the DSB authorized the EC to impose countermeasures against the US.
15. China believes that the panel and the Appellate Body's reasoning and their conclusion in US ­ FSC (21.5) should be considered and taken by this Panel.
16. The measures challenged by Brazil in the current proceeding are exactly the same challenged by the EC in US ­ FSC (21.5). Reasoning and conclusion by the earlier panel and the Appellate Body are more than relevant to the current case. Their reports, once adopted by DSB not only create legitimate expectations, but also reflect the collective will of the WTO membership.
17. In that respect, allow me to quote the panel in India ­ Patent Protection for Pharmaceutical and Agricultural Chemical Products, for this Panel:
[I]n the course of "normal dispute settlement procedures" required under Article 10.4 of the DSU, we will take into account the conclusions and reasoning in the Panel and Appellate Body reports in WT/DS50. Moreover, in our examination, we believe that we should give significant weight to both Article 3.2 of the DSU, which stresses the role of the WTO dispute settlement system in providing security and predictability to the multilateral trading system, and to the need to avoid inconsistent rulings (which

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-42
concern has been referred to by both parties). In our view, these considerations form the basis of the requirement of the referral to the "original panel" wherever possible under Article 10.4 of the DSU.
18. This concludes my oral presentation. China welcomes questions from the Panel regarding these issues.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-43
ANNEX C-10
ORAL STATEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES
24 July 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................... 44
II. THE ROLE OF THE PEACE CLAUSE ...................................................................... 44
III. INTERPRETATION OF THE PEACE CLAUSE ...................................................... 45 A. ARTICLE 13 IS NOT AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE ................................................................45 B. RELEVANT COMPARISON FOR THE PURPOSES OF ARTICLE 13 ......................................46 C. THE MEANING OF "DECIDED DURING THE 1992 MARKETING YEAR"...........................46 D. THE MEANING OF THE TERM "SUPPORT TO A SPECIFIC COMMODITY" ......................47
IV. THE INTERPRETATION OF ANNEX 2 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE (THE "GREEN BOX") .............................................................. 47
A. FIRST SENTENCE OF THE FIRST PARAGRAPH OF ANNEX 2 .............................................47 B. TYPE OF PRODUCTION ..............................................................................................................48 C. A DEFINED AND FIXED BASE PERIOD ...................................................................................49
V. INTERPRETATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE /RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SCM AGREEMENT AND GATT 1994................... 49
A. ARE DOMESTIC CONTENT SUBSIDIES EXPRESSLY PERMITTED BY THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE ?.............................................................................................49
B. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES WHICH OPERATE AS EXPORT SUBSIDIES ARE SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE OBLIGATIONS ON EXPORT SUBSIDIES ....................................................................................................................50
VI. MEASURES BEFORE THE PANEL (FSC REPLACEMENT SCHEME) ............. 51
VII. CONCLUSION ............................................................................................................... 51

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-44
I. INTRODUCTION
1. Mr. Chairman, Distinguished Members of the Panel, the European Communities is grateful for the opportunity to express its views in this third party session.
2. We would first like to welcome the involvement of Benin in this procedure. The European Communities is of the view that the involvement of least developed countries in dispute settlement is highly desirable. We hope that other least developed countries follow Benin's lead.1
3. This is a complex case which raises many difficult and important interpretative issues. Those responsible for drafting Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture have left you with some difficult questions. Despite those difficulties, Article 13 in particular, and the Agreement on Agriculture more generally, represent a finely balanced and much fought over package of rights and obligations assumed by WTO Members. The European Communities is confident that this Panel will undertake a careful examination of these very precise terms and preserve the delicate balance of rights and obligations which has been negotiated.
4. This dispute raises a large number of issues. In our interventions, we have concentrated on those issues of principle which we consider are of systemic concern. Today, we will largely address issues which were not addressed in our written submission. At the same time, we also consider it necessary to revisit some issues which we have already addressed in order to rebut some of the arguments raised by other parties.
5. The European Communities starts by setting out its conception of the role of the peace clause (section II). We will then address several questions of interpretation relating to the peace clause (section III). We then turn to consider the interpretation of Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture (the Green Box) (Section IV) before considering the status of domestic content subsidies and export credits under the Agreement on Agriculture (Section V). We conclude with some comments on one of the requests for preliminary rulings raised by the United States (Section VI).
II. THE ROLE OF THE PEACE CLAUSE
6. We turn first to consider the role of the Peace Clause (Article 13).
7. The European Communities views Article 13 as one element regulating the interface between the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement. It defines, in some cases, how subsidies granted pursuant to the Agreement on Agriculture should be treated for the purposes of countervailing duty investigations, and in other cases exempts such subsidies from actions under the SCM Agreement. The European Communities disagrees with both Brazil and the United States as to how the term "exempt from action" should be understood. However, while we disagree with the United States' logic, we do not disagree with the practical result of the application of its logic.
8. The term "exempt from action" cannot mean, as Brazil claims, that, even if the peace clause is applicable, the Panel must examine Brazil's claims under the SCM Agreement, and that if the Panel finds that the United States has acted inconsistently with the SCM Agreement, the DSB should somehow "refrain" from recommending the United States to bring itself into conformity with the SCM Agreement. The European Communities finds it difficult to imagine how the DSB, operating under the negative consensus rule, could refrain from recommending the United States bring itself into conformity should the Panel find that the United States had acted inconsistently with the SCM Agreement. Moreover, the United States can reasonably argue that it is not required to bring itself
1 This text was not in the written statement circulated at the third party session, but reflects unscripted comments made during that session.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-45
into conformity with the SCM Agreement by withdrawing measures which it is perfectly entitled to maintain under the Agreement on Agriculture, pursuant to both Article 13 and Article 21. The only answer to this question is that if the United States is entitled to peace clause protection, the Panel cannot find in favour of Brazil's SCM Agreement claims.
9. The European Communities does not agree with the United States that Article 13 prevents a Member from requesting consultations or the establishment of a panel with respect to a measure which might be entitled to Article 13 protection. It is not, as the US argues, the mere fact that the defendant Member is unable to block a request for consultations, or for establishment of a panel, that the applicability of the peace clause has come before this Panel. The need for the Panel to adjudicate this issue flows from the fundamental principle underlying the WTO Agreement that every question of interpretation of the WTO Agreements which "affects the operation of any covered agreement" must be subject to the DSU.2 However, as we have noted, if the Panel determines that the US measures in question are protected by Article 13, it cannot find in favour of Brazil's claims under the SCM Agreement.
III. INTERPRETATION OF THE PEACE CLAUSE
10. The Panel has a number of challenging questions before it on the interpretation of various aspects of Article 13(b). The European Communities turns now to set out its position on some of the issues before the Panel.
A ARTICLE 13 IS NOT AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENCE
11. The European Communities will only briefly touch upon the issue of the burden of proof for Article 13. The European Communities has yet to hear a credible response to the argument that putting the burden of proof on the defendant has perverse effects. As the European Communities and the United States have pointed out, when a complainant brings a case only under the Agreement on Agriculture (for instance alleging breach of Article 6) it will bear the burden of proof. However, if Article 13 is considered an affirmative defence, when a complainant brings a dispute under Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement and, for instance, Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture, the complainant would be required to prove a breach of Article 6 while at the same time the defendant would also be required to prove that it had not infringed Article 6 of the Agreement. The burden of proof cannot switch between parties simply on the basis of whether the complainant cites the SCM Agreement or not, but this would be the result of interpreting Article 13 as an affirmative defence.
12. Further confirmation that Article 13 is not an affirmative defence can be drawn from the fact that Article 13 also regulates the application of countervailing duties on agricultural subsidies. In this context, a determination that the subsidy in question is not protected by Article 13 must be taken by an investigating authority before it may impose countervailing duties. Article 13 is consequently a pre-condition for an individual Member in taking action against subsidised exports. It cannot, in that context, be considered as a defence for exporters co-operating in an investigation and may, as the United States have pointed out, be used as the foundation for a claim in a WTO dispute by the exporting Member that countervailing duties have been illegally imposed. There is no reason why that conception of Article 13 should change simply because the issue arises in WTO dispute settlement.
2 Article 4.2 DSU.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-46
B. RELEVANT COMPARISON FOR THE PURPOSES OF ARTICLE 13
13. Brazil has argued that any breach of the 1992 level during the 9 year implementation period removes the protection of Article 13.3 The European Communities agrees with the United States that this is incorrect.4 The present tense of the phrase "do not grant support" makes this clear. The comparison for the purpose of Article 13(b) must be between the level of support decided in the 1992 marketing year and that granted by virtue of the measures being challenged. This would typically mean the most recent marketing year.
C. THE MEANING OF "DECIDED DURING THE 1992 MARKETING YEAR"
14. We now turn to consider the meaning of the phrase "decided during the 1992 marketing year". Brazil argues that the term "decided" refers to a decision to budget a specific amount of domestic support over a number of years.5 Brazil then goes on to suggest that because the United States did not make a "decision" during marketing year 1992 with respect to upland cotton, the only decision which the United States can be said to have made during marketing year 1992 was the continued funding of its programmes for upland cotton. Brazil then calculates the US' budgetary outlays in respect of upland cotton in 1992; in other words, Brazil looks at the support actually granted.6
15. The European Communities is concerned that Brazil appears to consider that the support "decided" in the sense of Article 13 can be equated with the support granted as Brazil has done in its use of US budgetary outlays. Such an interpretation ignores the meaning of the word "decided". That the use of the word "decided" cannot be equated with the term "granted" is illustrated by the following.
16. First, the use of the word "decided" itself is notable. It is, however, notable primarily for what it is not. WTO Members did not use the word "granted" which is the word which one would expect to be used had this phrase been intended to refer only to the domestic support actually used during the 1992 marketing year. The use of the word "decided" stands out particularly when it is compared to the use of the word "grant" in the very same sentence. The United States has made the same point with respect to the decision not to use the word "provided".7 If WTO Members had intended that the support granted in the most recent period was to be compared to that granted in marketing year 1992 the word "decided" would not have been used. For this reason, Brazil's use of US budgetary outlays for marketing year 1992 is clearly flawed.
17. Second, the word "decided", meaning "settled, certain",8 also implies a one-off decision. It would be odd to talk of an administration "deciding" countless applications for support under a particular programme. However, this is what Brazil's use of US budgetary outlays implies.
18. Finally, the use of the word "during" confirms that WTO Members intended that the decision need not be of application only in marketing year 1992 but may also cover future periods. The use of the word "during" (meaning "in the course of"9) implies a one-off decision, and does not suggest that the period of application of the decision must be limited to marketing year 1992. Had WTO Members intended a limitation to the support provided or granted in 1992 the word "for" would have been used
3 Brazil's First Written Submission, paras.142 and 146-150. 4 US First Written Submission, para. 79 and 90. 5 Brazil's First Written Submission, paras. 139 and 140. 6 Brazil's First Written Submission, paras. 141-145. 7 US First Written Submission, paras.83-84. 8 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1993. 9 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1993.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-47
in place of "during". This further confirms that Brazil's use of US budgetary outlays cannot be considered correct.
19. Consequently, Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii) are intended to set up as a benchmark an amount of support adopted by some form of decision (be it political, legislative or administrative) in which support for a specific product is decided and allocated for future years. It is clearly not intended to set up a comparison between domestic support granted in 1992 and domestic support granted in a more recent period. The European Communities respectfully requests the Panel not to follow Brazil's equation of the term decided with the term granted.
20. For the European Communities, the question of what decision was adopted during 1992 by the United States is a question of fact which we do not take a position on, especially as we are not fully aware of all the elements which might be relevant.
D. THE MEANING OF THE TERM "SUPPORT TO A SPECIFIC COMMODITY"
21. The United States has argued that the term "support to a specific commodity" is synonymous with the term "product-specific support".10 Brazil had, in its First Written Submission, taken all support which was specific to cotton, and added to it a proportion of generally available support intended to represent the amount of such support which could be attributed to cotton.11
22. The European Communities shares the approach of the United States. Quite simply, support which is provided to a number of crops cannot at the same time be considered "support to a specific commodity". Such support is "support to several commodities" or "support to more than one commodity".
23. With respect, Brazil and New Zealand are wrong to suggest that the word "specific" was added to make clear that the applicable benchmark under Article 13 was not the overall level of subsidies decided but rather was to be undertaken on a product-by-product basis.12 A brief glance at the SCM Agreement finds it replete with references to "a product" or "a subsidised product".13 Consequently, it could make no sense to interpret Article 13 as being based on overall support. The word "specific" was not, therefore, inserted to differentiate the use of Article 13 in respect of specific products to the application of Article 6 to overall agricultural support, but rather as a qualifier to the word "support".
24. Consequently, the Panel should conclude that the correct comparison is between product specific support decided in 1992 and product specific support currently provided.
IV. THE INTERPRETATION OF ANNEX 2 OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE (THE "GREEN BOX")
A. FIRST SENTENCE OF THE FIRST PARAGRAPH OF ANNEX 214
25. Australia has argued in its comments today that the European Communities is incorrect to consider that the first sentence of the first paragraph of Annex 2 does not impose a separate obligation. The European Communities notes, however, that Australia does not comment and does not
10 US First Written Submission, paras. 77-78. 11 Brazil's First Written Submission, para. 143. 12 Brazil's First Written Submission, para. 136; New Zealand Third Party Submission Para. 2.22. 13 See, in particular, Article 6.3. 14 This section was not in the written statement circulated at the third party session, but reflects unscripted comments made during that session.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-48
attempt to rebut the compelling contextual arguments that the European Communities has made in its written submission.15 The European Communities pointed out that in several instances that the Agreement on Agriculture refers to the "criteria" for inclusion in the green box, specifically in Articles 6 and 7, and most importantly, in paragraph 5 of Annex 2. There is no such reference to the "fundamental requirements". The European Communities recalls that a panel is obliged to follow the accepted canons of interpretation of international law, and therefore, to view the ordinary meaning of the words concerned in light of their context and objective. Consequently, it is clear that the first sentence of paragraph 1 of Annex 2 is not, in and of itself, an independent obligation. This does not render it inutile, as Australia charges. The first sentence sets out an objective and indicates the type of effects which respect for the criteria in the green box is deemed to create. The European Communities urges the Panel to reject Australia's unsubstantiated arguments.
B. TYPE OF PRODUCTION
26. Brazil has argued that the fact payments are reduced where fruits and vegetables, and certain other crops are grown on contract acreage for the purposes of PFC and direct payments means that the "amount of such payments [is] related to or based on, the type or volume of production [ ..] in any year after the base period" (Paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2). However, Brazil also appears to recognise that farmers claiming the benefit of direct payments may plant crops other than the programme crops, and may even not produce any crops.16 The United States asserts that no current agricultural production is required in order to benefit from direct payments.17
27. Assuming the US' assertion to be correct (as seems to be acknowledged by Brazil) the Panel is faced with a dilemma. Is the amount of funding provided by a programme, from which a farmer can benefit without producing anything, to be considered to be "based on or linked to a certain type of production", when payments under that programme can be reduced by growing certain crops? Brazil and some third parties simply assume that where payments can be reduced by growing certain crops, the programme is based on or linked to a certain type of production. Such a view does not, however, take account of the complexity of the situation.
28. In the view of the European Communities, reducing payments under a programme, where a farmer grows fruit or vegetables does not mean that the amount of the payment is linked to type of production. This is because the farmer is free to produce a whole range of other crops, or even not to produce at all and receive the full payment.
29. What Brazil and other third parties fail to realise is that the reduction in payment for fruits and vegetables, if the European Communities understands correctly, is in fact designed to avoid unfair competition within the subsidising Member. Brazil and the other third parties have not challenged the right of a subsidising Member to decide decoupled payments based on past production of, or acreage utilised for, certain crops. Indeed, this is permitted in paragraph 6(a) of Annex 2. However, in the case where, for instance, upland cotton production enjoyed support, while fruit and vegetable production did not, decoupled payments based on past cotton production would allow subsidised former cotton farmers to grow fruit and vegetables, and thus unfairly compete with pre-existing fruit and vegetable producers who could not benefit from the decoupled payments because they had not produced cotton or other supported products in the base period. Thus, the reduction in payments is a necessary element in ensuring that the equilibrium established by the market for the production of fruit and vegetables is not artificially disturbed by the introduction of decoupled support.
15 EC's First Third Party Submission, paras. 15-25 and in particular paras. 22 and 23. 16 Brazil's First Written Submission, para. 49. 17 US First Written Submission, para. 68.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-49
30. Furthermore, finding that Brazil and the other third parties are correct would have perverse effects. The whole Agreement on Agriculture is geared at gradually reducing certain types of domestic support. However, if a Member could not reduce decoupled payments when certain types of products which had previously not enjoyed any support are grown, the net effect would be that WTO Members wishing to provide decoupled support would have to increase overall support, and provide producers previously excluded with support which they had not previously enjoyed. This is clearly not an effect which the negotiators of the Agreement on Agriculture intended.
31. In this light, this potential reduction of payment is very different from the prohibition set down in paragraph 6(b) of Annex 2. Paragraph 6(b) is intended to prevent an artificial pressure to produce certain crops in order to obtain decoupled payments. Reducing payments where fruit and vegetables are produced does not act to pressure farmers into growing a particular type of crop. Rather, it prevents internal unfair competition. At the same time, as we understand the US measure, it does not oblige a farmer to produce any particular type of crop, in fact requires no production, and therefore should not be considered inconsistent with paragraph 6(b).
C. A DEFINED AND FIXED BASE PERIOD
32. The European Communities would also like to comment briefly on the arguments raised by Brazil and some of the third parties with respect to the updating of the base periods in the 2002 FRSI Act. We take note of the US statement that the updating of the base period was necessary in order to bring support for oilseeds production under the direct payments scheme.18 In order to ensure the progressive movement of production distorting subsidies to decoupled subsidies we consider that it must be possible to have different reference periods where eligibility is based on previous eligibility for production distorting subsidies. We see nothing in paragraph 6 of Annex 2 which might prevent this. At the same time, however, the European Communities is concerned that continued updating of reference periods in respect of the same already decoupled support, creating an expectation that production of certain crops will be rewarded with a greater entitlement to supposedly decoupled payments, tends to undermine the decoupled nature of such payments.
V. INTERPRETATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE /RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SCM AGREEMENT AND GATT 1994
A. ARE DOMESTIC CONTENT SUBSIDIES EXPRESSLY PERMITTED BY THE AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE ?
33. Brazil has argued that US Step 2 payments, which it alleges are conditional upon use of domestic goods, are inconsistent with Article 3 of the SCM Agreement and Article III.4 GATT 1994. New Zealand supports this claim. However, as with other claims, their analysis does not take fully into account the complexities of the situation. The European Communities agrees with the United States that subsidies contingent upon the use of domestic goods, which are maintained consistently with the Agreement on Agriculture are not inconsistent with either the SCM Agreement or GATT 1994.
34. The first question is whether subsidies contingent upon the use of domestic goods are consistent with the Agreement on Agriculture. The answer is a clear yes. Article 3.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture requires Members not to:
"...provide support in favour of domestic producers in excess of the commitment levels specified in Section I of Part IV of its Schedule." (emphasis added).
18 US First Written Submission, para. 60.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-50
35. We have emphasised the phrase "in favour of". This is significant because it does not require that support be "to" domestic producers. The same term is used in Article 1(a) (the definition of AMS) and in Article 1(h) (definition of Total AMS). Moreover, it is established with respect to Article 1 of the SCM Agreement that a financial contribution and benefit need not be bestowed on the same person.19 Consequently, it is simply logical that support may be provided in favour of domestic producers through the provision of funds to processors of the product concerned, and consequently that access to such subsidies be limited to domestic produce, in order to ensure that it is domestic producers who benefit from this subsidy. Indeed, WTO Members, in their wisdom, recognised precisely this possibility in Annex 3 to the Agreement on Agriculture where they explained how the AMS was to be calculated. Paragraph 7 thereof explicitly contemplates that:
"measures directed at agricultural processors shall be included to the extent that such measures benefit the producers of the basic agricultural products."
36. Consequently, it is clear that a Member has a right to provide subsidies contingent upon use of domestic products under the Agreement on Agriculture. On this, the US and the European Communities agree.
37. The second question for the Panel is how does that right relate to the prohibition in Article 3 of the SCM Agreement and the national treatment obligation in Article III.4 of GATT. Here, again, we agree with the United States.
38. Article 21.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture provides that the other goods agreements will apply "subject to" the provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture. That is, the other Annex 1A Agreements will be subordinated to the Agreement on Agriculture.20 A finding that a measure was a domestic content subsidy would mean that such a subsidy would be prohibited under Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement and would (in all likelihood) be inconsistent with Article III.4 GATT. In such an event, the consequences of such a finding would have to be subordinated to the right to adopt such measures under the Agreement on Agriculture (provided reduction commitments are respected). Moreover, the chapeau of Article 3.1 of the SCM Agreement clearly exempts from the scope of that Article domestic content subsidies which are maintained consistently with the Agreement on Agriculture and Article III.8 may be relevant to any claim under Article III.4. GATT.
39. Consequently, Brazil's claims that domestic content subsidies maintained consistently with the Agreement on Agriculture can be found to be inconsistent with the SCM Agreement and Article III.4 GATT should be dismissed.
B. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES WHICH OPERATE AS EXPORT SUBSIDIES ARE SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE OBLIGATIONS ON EXPORT SUBSIDIES
40. The United States maintains, in its first written submission, that Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture operates so as to exclude export subsidies in the form of export credits or export credit guarantees. This is not borne out by the text of Article 10.2. Article 10.2 provides for disciplines to be negotiated on the provision of export credits and export credit guarantees; it does not provide an exemption to the export subsidy obligations of the Agreement on Agriculture.
41. The United States provides numerous examples of instances in which the WTO has foreseen further negotiations. However, none of these examples support the United States argument that there are no disciplines for export credit guarantees which operate as export subsidies.
19 See, Appellate Body Report, United States ­ Countervailing Measures Concerning Certain Products from the European Communities, WT/DS212/AB/R, adopted 8 January 2003, para. 110.
20 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1993.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-51
42. The best example to illustrate this point is the agreement to negotiate disciplines on harmonised rules of origin. The fact that it was agreed to have negotiations on rules of origin simply means that there is no requirement for a WTO Member to apply an as yet un-finalised set of harmonised rules of origin. However, this does not imply that a WTO Member is exempted from other WTO obligations when it comes to apply rules of origin. A WTO Member must, for instance, in applying its rules of origin, respect the most-favoured nation principle set out in Article 1 GATT. Similarly, while there may not be disciplines on the provision of export credits and export credit guarantees, clearly export credits or export credit guarantees which operate as export subsidies are subject to the export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement.
43. Other examples are equally illustrative. The US cites provisions in the GATS providing for negotiations on government procurement, emergency safeguards and subsidies on trade in services. However, it does not point out the fact that these subjects are clearly not subject to GATS disciplines, and thus negotiations are required to develop even minimal disciplines. Government procurement in services is the best example ­ GATS disciplines are explicitly excluded by Article XIII GATS. In contrast, there is no clear exclusion of export credits or export credit guarantees which operate as export subsidies from the Agreement on Agriculture.
44. Finally, contrary to the US suggestions, such an interpretation does not render Article 10.2 meaningless. Article 10.2 is not intended to regulate export credits and export credit guarantees as export subsidies but rather to provide for a general set of disciplines comparable to the OECD guidelines for export credits for industrial goods. That the Harbinson text (which of course has yet to be agreed) contains provisions on export credit and export credit guarantees is a recognition that disciplines must be negotiated and that clarification must be provided as to which export credits or export credits guarantees are, in the case of agricultural products, to be considered export subsidies, but is not a recognition that such support which operates as an export subsidy are not currently subject to the obligations of the Agreement on Agriculture.
VI. MEASURES BEFORE THE PANEL (FSC REPLACEMENT SCHEME)
45. The United States has argued that Brazil has failed to make a prima facie case of the inconsistency of the FSC Replacement scheme (the ETI) with the covered agreements. The European Communities must admit to being surprised that the United States considers that Brazil has to present a prima facie case of inconsistency. According to Article 17.14 of the DSU parties to a dispute must "unconditionally accept" adopted Appellate Body Reports as "a final resolution to that dispute."21 Given that the United States must be assumed to have unconditionally accepted the findings of the Appellate Body in the FSC 21.5 dispute, which, by definition also included a finding that the United States was illegally providing export subsidies to unscheduled agricultural products such as upland cotton, the European Communities fails to see how the United States can argue that Brazil needs to establish a prima facie case. On the contrary, Brazil simply needs to assert a claim.
VII. CONCLUSION
46. This brings us to the end of our statement today. Thank you for bearing with us through a statement which was inevitably long, given the complexity of the issues, and the very short time we had to prepare our written submission.
47. There are a few central points which we would like to leave you with:
 The peace clause is not an affirmative defence;
21 Appellate Body Report US- Shrimp (21.5 ­ Malaysia) para. 97.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-52
 The term "decided" cannot be equated with "granted";
 Reducing payments where certain crops are grown for reasons of internal competition does not amount to basing payments on a certain type of production;
 Domestic content subsidies in favour of domestic producers are permitted under the Agreement on Agriculture, and can be maintained irrespective of other provisions; and,
 Export credit guarantees which operate as export subsidies are subject to the Agreement on Agriculture.
48. Thank you for your attention. We are, of course, happy to answer your questions, here or in writing.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-53
ANNEX C-11
INDIA'S ORAL STATEMENT
Mr. Chairman and Members of the Panel,
I thank you for the opportunity to present India's views in this third party session. India has a few short comments to make on the issues in the dispute.
1. Brazil has challenged the US Subsidy programme relating to cotton. The main schemes challenged are
(i) Step 2 export payments (ii) US export credit guarantee programmes, and (iii) Extra Territorial Income (ETI) Act export subsidies.
2. These schemes do not conform to the provisions of Part V of the Agreement on Agriculture and thus have no "peace clause" protection from claims under the Subsidies Agreement. These schemes also violate Article 3.1(a) & 3.2 of the Subsidies Agreement.
3. The scheme relating to Step 2 export payments constitutes an export subsidy within the meaning of the Agreement on Agriculture. It also violates the Subsidies Agreement as
(i) It involves grants within the meaning of the Subsidies Agreement as the US Government pays money to its exporters
(ii) These grants involve direct transfer of economic resources for which the US Government receives no consideration
(iii) The scheme confers a benefit within the meaning of Article 1.1(b) of the Subsidies Agreement as they constitute "free money" for which exporters incur no corresponding obligations and they are made for " less than full consideration" and
(iv) The Scheme is also export contingent within the meaning of Article 3.1(a) of the Subsidies Agreement because exporters are only eligible for payments if they produce evidence that they have exported an amount of US upland cotton.
4. The three Export Credit Guarantee Programmes (GSM 102, GSM 103 & SCGP) are export subsidies within the meaning of the Agreement on Agriculture (AOA) as
(i) They are operated " at premium rates which are inadequate to cover the long term operating costs and losses of the program" as per item (j) of the illustrative list of export subsidies in ASCM.
(ii) They involve financial contributions that confer "benefits" and are contingent upon export performance within the meaning of Article 1.1 & 3.1(a) of the Subsidies Agreement. The US itself treats them as subsidies in its budget.
5. The ETI Act constitutes export subsidies within the meaning of Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture. This Act operates to circumvent the US export subsidy commitments by providing an export subsidy to upland cotton while the US does not have any export subsidy reduction commitments for cotton in violation of Articles 10.1 & 8 of the AOA.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-54
6. The Step 2 Domestic Payment Scheme grants are direct transfers of funds and constitute a financial contribution by a Government within the meaning of Article 1.1(a)(1)(i) of the Subsidies Agreement. They also confer a "benefit" within the meaning of Article 1.1(h) of the Subsidies Agreement because the domestic user of US upland cotton receives the financial contribution on terms more favourable than those available in the market. Moreover these payment are contingent upon the use of domestic over imported goods.
Mr. Chairman, Members of the Panel,
7. Brazil has provided the legal arguments as to why the US has no basis to assert a "peace clause" defence against Brazil's claims on actionable/prohibited subsidies being given by the US.
8. According to Brazil, the "peace clause" of AOA Article 13 is in the nature of an affirmative defence. The US has indicated that it will invoke a "peace clause" defence in the matter. This means that the burden of proof will be on US to show that the US domestic support and export subsidies to upland cotton are provided in conformity with the requirements of the "peace clause".
9. Brazil has argued that US has no "peace clause" protection under AOA Article 13(c) as the US while invoking an affirmative defence must demonstrate that its export subsidies confirm fully to the provisions of Part V of the AOA. Part V of the AOA consists of Articles 8 to 11. A member violates Part V of the AOA if it provides export subsidies for products for which it has not undertaken any export subsidy reduction commitments.
10. Issues relating to affirmative defence and peace clause defence are mainly legal in nature and should be subject to interpretation under the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties and the WTO jurisprudence as seen through Appellate Body findings.
11. As regards subsidies contingent upon export performance, export credit guarantees and premiums, and use of domestic over imported inputs, Mr. Chairman, India believes that they all fall in the category of prohibited subsidies and are actionable under the ASCM.
Thank you for your kind attention.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-55
ANNEX C-12
NEW ZEALAND'S ORAL STATEMENT
24 July 2003
1. Mr Chairman, Members of the Panel, New Zealand's views on the issues of concern in this dispute are set out in our Third Party Submission of 15 July and in the time available today it is clearly not possible to canvass all of those views. Accordingly, and as suggested by you in your opening remarks Mr Chairman, I will focus only on some key points.
(i) New Zealand's systemic interest in the dispute
2. First, as outlined in our Third Party Submission, New Zealand has joined this dispute because of our systemic interest in ensuring the continued integrity of WTO disciplines applicable to agricultural trade. In particular we are concerned to ensure that trade-distorting or "amber box" measures cannot be used contrary to the "peace clause" in a manner that negatively affects other Members.
3. It is equally important that where the requirements of the "peace clause" have not been respected Members are able to utilise their rights under the SCM Agreement and GATT 1994 to take action in respect of domestic support measures and export subsidies.
(ii) Brazil's demonstration that the United States cannot claim "peace clause" protection for domestic support provided in marketing years 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002
4. Second, Brazil has demonstrated that the level of domestic support for upland cotton granted by the United States in each of the marketing years in question did in fact exceed the level decided during the 1992 marketing year and that there is therefore no "peace clause" protection for those support measures.
5. The United States argues that this is not the case, on the basis that the comparison required by the "peace clause" should be between the `per pound' rates of support set by the relevant domestic support measures and that certain domestic support measures should be excluded from the comparison.
6. Turning first to the United States claim that the relevant comparison should be between `per pound' rates of support, in New Zealand's view such an interpretation would be inconsistent with the object and purpose of Article 13(b)(ii). Instead, Article 13(b)(ii) requires a comparison that takes into account the totality of payments to upland cotton producers in order to reflect the true nature of the support that is being granted, including for example, total budgetary outlays. This is especially so when those budgetary outlays have been increasing because of falling world market prices. And those prices are falling due, at least in part, to the fact that United States producers are shielded from true price signals by the guaranteed `per pound' rates.
7. Furthermore, New Zealand sees no basis for excluding certain domestic support measures from the calculation required by the "peace clause" as requested by the United States.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-56
8. The "counter-cyclical" payments are plainly not "green box" support measures in accordance with Annex 2 of the Agreement on Agriculture, as the amount of the payment is linked to current prices for upland cotton, in direct contravention of Annex 2 paragraph 6(c).
9. Nor is the scope of support to be measured under Article 13(b)(ii) limited to "productspecific" support in the sense proposed by the United States. There is no basis for such an interpretation in either the wording or the intent of Article 13(b)(ii). [Just to depart from the prepared statement for a moment, the EC has reminded us this morning of the importance of taking context into account when interpreting WTO Agreements. We would note that it is also important to consider the ordinary and natural meaning of the actual words appearing in the Agreements. Here the words used are "support to a specific commodity" ­ the text does not say "product-specific support". If the drafters had intended to mean "product-specific support", they surely would have said so. After all, the phrase "product-specific support" is used at least five times elsewhere in the Agreement on Agriculture. Returning now to the prepared text,] even if such an interpretation as suggested by the US, could be supported, "counter-cyclical" payments are in any event product-specific support because, as Brazil has demonstrated, there is a strong linkage between those payments and production of upland cotton.
10. New Zealand also considers that there is no basis for excluding the Production Flexibility Contract payments or Direct Payments from the required calculation. The ability of farmers to update the base acreage used for calculation of Direct Payments rules out inclusion of those payments in the "green box", which contemplates only one base period that is fixed and unchanging. To permit a Member to avoid this limitation by simply changing the names of its domestic support programmes would seriously undermine the requirement that there be no link between production and the amount of support.
(iii) Brazil's demonstration that the United States cannot claim "peace clause" protection in respect of export subsidies;
11. Looking now at export subsidies, New Zealand agrees with Brazil that the three types of export subsidies applied to upland cotton and other commodities by the United States (the Step 2 Export Programme, the Export Credit Guarantee Programme, and the FSC Replacement Programme) violate Articles 3.3, 8 and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
12. New Zealand rejects the argument made by the United States that Step 2 export payments are not export subsidies because payments are available to domestic users as well as exporters of upland cotton. The Appellate Body (in US-FSC Recourse to Article 21.5) has made it clear that the fact that payments are also able to be made to domestic users of upland cotton does not `dissolve' the export contingency of the payments that are made to exporters.
13. New Zealand also finds no basis for the assertion by the United States that export credit guarantee programmes are not subject in any way to the export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture. In fact the inclusion of reference to such programmes in the context of Article 10 supports the opposite conclusion and demonstrates that Members were in fact concerned at the potential for such programmes to circumvent Members' export subsidy reduction commitments.
14. In summary Brazil has demonstrated that the export subsidies to upland cotton do not have "peace clause" protection, and also that they are prohibited subsidies under Article 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-57
(iv) The request by the United States for a Preliminary Ruling
15. Finally Mr Chairman, New Zealand does not consider that the Panel should grant the preliminary ruling requested by the United States.
16. First, New Zealand believes that measures no longer in effect are not outside the scope of the Panel's consideration, particularly where the programmes in question, while renamed, in fact continue in a slightly different form. Furthermore, the nature of serious prejudice claims means that Panels may need to consider data beyond a single year and consider trends over a number of years.
17. Second, New Zealand considers that export credit guarantee measures relating to eligible United States agricultural commodities (other than upland cotton) are within the Panel's terms of reference. To determine otherwise would be to allow a lack of transparency in the operation of particular measures to shield them from scrutiny by Members taking disputes.
Conclusion
18. In conclusion, Mr Chairman, New Zealand believes that Brazil has demonstrated that the "peace clause" has not been respected in relation to domestic support and export subsidies provided by the United States to upland cotton in the marketing years 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, and that accordingly Brazil is entitled to bring actionable and prohibited subsidy claims against the United States under the GATT 1994 and the SCM Agreement. New Zealand looks forward to the next phase of the case which will examine those claims.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-58
ANNEX C-13
ORAL SUBMISSION BY PARAGUAY
24 July 2003
Mr Chairman, members of the Panel:
1. Paraguay is grateful for the opportunity to participate in these proceedings and to present its views on the matter at issue in this dispute.
2. Because Paraguay is a firm believer in a fair system of multilateral trade, it feels that it should explain its position on this issue as a third party because it is an issue of particular interest to its economy.
3. Paraguay considers that the subsidies and support granted by the United States to its cotton production are inconsistent with the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Agreement on Agriculture and the rules and principles of the GATT 1994, and that for the purposes of this dispute it is therefore essential to take account of WTO legislation, which was carefully drafted to avoid causing distortions in international trade and prejudice to developing countries such as Paraguay.
4. WTO jurisprudence and the principles of interpretation of international law applied to the various cases suggests that the applicable rules should be read cumulatively, taking account of all elements applied to the case in order to support the system as an integrated whole.
5. With respect to the applicability of Article 13(b)(ii) concerning domestic support measures that conform fully to the provisions of Article 6 of the Agreement including direct payments that conform to the requirements to paragraph 5 thereof, as reflected in each Member's Schedule, as well as domestic support within de minimis levels and in conformity with paragraph 2 of Article 6, Paraguay considers they shall be exempt from actions based on paragraph 1 of Article XVI of GATT 1994 or Articles 5 and 6 of the Subsidies Agreement, provided that such measures do not grant support to a specific commodity in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year.
6. This implies that it is not limited or confined to specific products. Thus, it can be concluded that the United States does not enjoy protection from actions relating to subsidies using 1999, 2001 and 2002 as a basis, as Brazil duly proved.
7. In interpreting the Peace Clause, account must be taken of the serious prejudice that Member economies could suffer, and an assessment made of the overall significance of all of the agreements relating to the case.
8. Regarding inconsistency with the Agreement on Agriculture, the Step 2 programme introduced by the United States to stimulate exports and the competitiveness of its products on the international market is inconsistent with Articles 3.3 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
9. Article 3 of the Agreement on Agriculture refers to the incorporation of concessions and commitments. Paragraph 3 thereof stipulates that:

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-59
3.3 "Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2(b) and 4 of Article 9 of this Agreement, a Member shall not provide export subsidies listed in paragraph 1 of Article 9 in respect of the agricultural products or groups of products specified in Section II of Part IV of its Schedule in excess of the budgetary outlay and quantity commitment levels specified therein and shall not provide such subsidies in respect of any agricultural product not specified in that Section of its Schedule."
10. The above paragraph enables Members to provide the subsidies listed in Article 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture subject to fulfilment of the commitments assumed.
11. Similarly, Article 8 of the said Agreement regulates export competition commitments, stipulating that:
"Each Member undertakes not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with this Agreement and the commitments as specified in that Member's Schedule."
12. For the above reasons, and because it does not consider the provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture to have been complied with, Paraguay believes that the export subsidies granted by the United States to its cotton industry are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
13. The agricultural subsidies cause "serious prejudice" to the domestic industry of other Members under Articles 5 and 6 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.
14. The introductory paragraph of part III, Article 5 of the said Agreement provides that no Member should cause, through the use of any subsidy ­ specific and not exempted under the Agreement ­ adverse effects to the interests of other Members, more specifically, as categorically stated in the indents that follow, (a) injury to the domestic industry of another Member and (c) serious prejudice to the interests of another Member.
15. Article 6 specifically refers to cases in which "serious prejudice" is deemed to exist in the sense of paragraph (c) of Article 5.
16. Agricultural subsidies have effects on world trade, and measures such as those applied by the United States have a significant impact on developing countries like Paraguay.
17. Paraguay has a total population of approximately 5,300,000, of which more than 500,000 are linked to cotton production. If we add the related industries and activities, the figure reaches an estimated 1,500,000, or approximately 30 per cent of the country's total population.
18. Any slump in the cotton trade causes an exodus of rural population towards the urban areas which do not offer any relief or solution, and this further undermines the economic situation of a country that depends on its agriculture.
19. As regards exports, in 1991, the foreign exchange revenue generated by sales of cotton and byproducts thereof reached US$318,912,000, approximately 43 per cent of the total for the country's exports that year. At the time, of a total of 299,259 farms, 190,000 were cultivating cotton.
20. By 2001, the figures had changed considerably. Export revenue had fallen to US$90,505,000, a 72 per cent drop in the value of exports. The number of farms producing cotton decreased to about 90,000, representing a 52 per cent decrease in farms, employment and small farmer income. In other words, the impoverishment was real.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-60
21. Regarding international cotton fibre prices, in 1991, the price per ton of Paraguayan type fibre was quoted on the New York Exchange at US$1,624, while in 2001, it was quoted at US$934.
22. In Paraguay, some 60 per cent of cotton is produced on farms of less than 10 hectares, making it the main or only source of income for small farmers and the main source of employment for the rural workforce in the most disadvantaged segment of society where access to capital and technology is more restricted and the leading socio-economic welfare indicators are lower than anywhere else.
23. In spite of its marked decline, cotton continues to be an important cash crop for the "capitalized" farms, and the main ­ if not only ­ cash crop of the farms that are on the decline.
24. The agricultural sector is fundamental to the Paraguayan economy, accounting for 90 per cent of exports, 35 per cent of employment and 25 per cent of GDP, in addition to which it supports an agro-industry that accounts for 11 per cent of GDP and 10 per cent of total employment.
Mr Chairman, members of the Panel:
25. The importance of cotton for Paraguay, both in social and economic terms, is such that an increase in international cotton fibre prices as a result of the elimination of significant market distortions such as subsidization of production would not only bring about a general improvement in the standard of living of the country's inhabitants, in a very fragile sector in particular, but it would also lead to an improvement in macroeconomic conditions, balance-of-payments, monetary reserves, etc. that would enable Paraguay to be more reliable in meeting its international financial commitments.
26. For the above reasons, and because it does not consider that the provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture have been complied with, Paraguay believes that the export subsidies granted by the United States to its cotton industry are inconsistent with Articles 3.3, 8 and 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
27. Paraguay therefore considers that the measures adopted by the United States cause serious prejudice to world trade, affecting Paraguay in particular, and that the necessary steps should be taken to eliminate the adverse effects and seek to achieve a balance in world trade.
28. Finally, Paraguay respectfully requests the Panel to conclude that the measure applied by the United States is inconsistent with its WTO obligations under various provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture, the GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-61
ANNEX C-14
ORAL STATEMENT BY THE SEPARATE CUSTOMS TERRITORY OF TAIWAN, PENGHU, KINMEN AND MATSU
AS A THIRD PARTY ON THE CASE OF THE UNITED STATES SUBSIDIES ON UPLAND COTTON
The Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu is pleased to be here as a third party in this case. We have a systemic interest in the particular question of the burden of proof required by Article 13 of the AOA, and would like to focus on this issue in our remarks. We have previously submitted our views in writing accordingly.
The Burden of Proof (the "Peace Clause")
In the case in point, Brazil asserts in its first written submission that Article 13 is by nature an "affirmative defence" or "exception" and "not itself a positive obligation", therefore the United States carries the burden of proof on whether its subsidies are in conformity with Article 13.
Our view, in summary, is that it is inappropriate to label Article 13 as an "affirmative defence" or "exception". Indeed this would mean the Article having much less than its originally intended effect. Article 13 in itself confers rights and imposes positive obligations on Members. It is not there simply for the convenience of resolving the question of the burden of proof. The right that it confers of entitlement to being "exempt from actions", for example, would be rendered pointless if the burden of proof were on the respondent. It is surely for Brazil, therefore, as a complainant, to prove a breach of a positive obligation by demonstrating non-conformity, rather than for the United States to bear the burden of proof.
In our written submission, we suggest that in arriving at a proper interpretation of the burden of proof in Article 13, it might also be helpful to make some comparisons with the different types of exceptions, exemptions and defences that exist in other Articles of WTO Agreements.
We mention, for example, disputes arising in connection with agreements not covered by the DSU, where the complaining party would bear the burden to prove that the issue in dispute falls within the purview of the DSB.
Also, where a matter is specifically excluded from the dispute settlement procedures by certain relevant agreements ­ such as Article 6 of the TRIPS agreement - the provision concerned allows the Member applying it to prevent dispute settlement procedures and the burden of proof falls on the complaining party.
And by way of further comparison, we refer to other cases where exceptions or exemptions are granted under relevant agreements providing specific obligations.
While Article 13 of the AOA is clearly in this case not dealing with a matter under a noncovered agreement or a matter that is specifically excluded from the dispute settlement procedures as in Article 6 of TRIPS, it is also not typical of the type of exception contained in a number of the GATT Articles. By its singular nature, Article 13, in our view, falls between these examples, therefore the procedures for applying its provision should be interpreted separately and differently.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page C-62
And finally, as far as the burden of proof is concerned, we submit that requiring the respondent to prove that the subsidy measure in question is in conformity with the Agreement on Agriculture will, to a certain extent, offset the respondent's right to claim for the exceptions provided by the Article 13 provisions, which is surely contrary to the drafters' intent.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-1

ANNEX D

REBUTTAL SUBMISSIONS OF PARTIES

Annex D-1
Annex D-2
Annex D-3 Annex D-4

Contents Executive Summary of Brazil's Rebuttal Submission (22 August 2003) Executive Summary of the United States Rebuttal Submission (22 August 2003) Brazil's Comments on U.S. Rebuttal Submission (27 August 2003) Comments of the United States on New Material in Brazil's Rebuttal Filings and Answer of the United States to the additional Question from the Panel (27 August 2003)

Page D-2
D-12
D-21 D-43

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-2
ANNEX D-1
BRAZIL'S REBUTTAL SUBMISSION TO THE PANEL REGARDING THE "PEACE CLAUSE"
AND NON-PEACE CLAUSE RELATED CLAIMS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

1. 1.1. 1.1.1. 1.1.2. 1.2. 1.2.1. 1.2.2. 1.2.3. 1.2.5. 1.2.6. 1.3. 1.4.
2.
2.1. 2.2. 2.3. 2.4.
3. 4.

The United States Has No Peace Clause Protection for Non-Green Box Domestic Support Measures to Upland Cotton for MY 1999-2002 ..................................3 Production Flexibility Contracts and Direct Payments Are Non-Green Box Domestic Support...............................................................................................................3 The Amounts of PFC and Direct Payments Depend on the "Type" of Production .........3 Direct Payments Are Not Green-Box Because the Base Periods for Determining Eligibility Have Been Updated in the 2002 FSRI Act..................................3 PFC, Market Loss Assistance, Direct and Counter-Cyclical Payments (CCP) and Crop Insurance Subsidies Are "Support To" Upland Cotton ..........................................4 Production Flexibility Contract Payments........................................................................4 Market Loss Assistance Payments.....................................................................................5 Direct Payments .................................................................................................................5 Counter-Cyclical Payments ...............................................................................................6 Crop Insurance Payments .................................................................................................6 The US Support to Upland Cotton in MY 1999-2002 Exceeded the Support Decided in MY 1992...........................................................................................................6 Challenges to Actionable Subsidies under Article 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of GATT 1994 Are Not Limited to the Marketing Year in which a WTO Panel Is Established ...................................................................................8 The GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Constitute Export Subsidies in Violation of Articles 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture, and Item (j) and Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement ............8 CCC Export Credit Guarantees Constitute Export Subsidies under Articles 1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement ............................................................................................9 The CCC Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Constitute Export Subsidies under Item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies................................................9 The CCC Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Threaten to Circumvent US Export Subsidy Reduction Commitments.......................................................................10 The GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Constitute Export Subsidies in Violation of Item (j) and Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement ....................................................................................................10 The Step 2 Export and Domestic Subsidies Are Prohibited Subsidies in Violation of Articles 3.1(a) and 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement.......................................................10 The ETI Act Subsidies Violate Articles 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture and Are Prohibited by Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement ..........................11

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-3
1. The United States Has No Peace Clause Protection for Non-Green Box Domestic Support Measures to Upland Cotton for MY 1999-2002
1.1. Production Flexibility Contracts and Direct Payments Are Non-Green Box Domestic Support
1.1.1. The Amounts of PFC and Direct Payments Depend on the "Type" of Production
1. PFC payments and direct payments are non-green box support because both limit the "amount" of payment based on the "type" of production inconsistent with the requirements of Annex 2, paragraph 6(b) of the Agreement on Agriculture. The relevant text of paragraph 6(b) prohibits any linkage of the "amount of payments" to any "type of production" of an agricultural product. The "amount" of payments under the PFC and direct payment programmes falls when base acres are used to produce fruits, vegetables and wild rice. Thus, the undisputed evidence demonstrates that PFC and direct payments do not meet the policy-specific criteria for "de-coupled income support" in Annex 2, paragraph 6(b).
2. Prohibiting payments if certain types of crops are produced while at the same time permitting payments if other types of crops are produced violates Annex 2, paragraph 6(b). Contrary to the US argument, requiring no production, i.e., prohibiting production, does not relate the amount of payments to the "type" of production, as no individual "type" of production would be eligible to payments. The notion of "type of production" in paragraph 6(b) is necessarily linked to the amount of payment to some "type" of commodity that is "produced" and not to a production requirement itself.
3. In addition, Brazil also presented evidence that the US restrictions on fruits, vegetables and wild rice prevent producers with PFC and direct payment base acreage from growing these alternative crops. This restriction, therefore, channels production into particular "types of production" by prohibiting other "types of production" and, therefore, violates Annex 2, paragraph 6(b).
1.1.2. Direct Payments Are Not Green-Box Because the Base Periods for Determining Eligibility Have Been Updated in the 2002 FSRI Act
4. Direct payments are also not properly in the green box because the amount of payments are based on an updated "base period" and not on a "fixed" base period as required by Annex 2, paragraphs 6(a) and (b). Paragraphs 6(a) and (b) require a fixed and, therefore, unchanging base period for de-coupled domestic support measures with the same structure, design, and eligibility criteria. The evidence demonstrates that there are no significant changes in the payment eligibility criteria between the PFC programme and its direct successor, the direct payment program. Indeed, PFC payments made during 2002 were deducted from the amount of direct payments due in 2002.
5. Further, the updating permitted under the 2002 FSRI Act for direct payments was significant ­ one-third of eligible farms updated their PFC base acreage as of June 2003 in order to increase the base acreage ­ and payments ­ under the direct payment programme. This updating creates production-distorting effects because it creates expectations of future updates and will incite farmers to produce more of the programme crops that qualify for support.
6. The United States interprets the word "fixed" in Annex 2, paragraph 6(a) and (b) as being "fixed" only for the life of a particular legal measure. A Member could change a measure every year, update the "base period" to reflect the prior year's acreage, increase current payments to reflect the updated (and increased) "historical" acreage, and label it differently under a new law. Thus, the US interpretation would permit payments to be completely "coupled" to production, just with a one-year time lag. It would render any disciplines reflected in the use of the term "a" and "fixed" "base

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-4
period" in Annex 2, paragraph 6(a) a nullity. This is contrary not only to the ordinary meaning of the term "fixed" but also to the object and purpose of Annex 2, paragraph 6(a) to not permit Members to increase payments over time in a manner linked to increases in production over time. The re-linkage of payments to production is also inconsistent with the "fundamental requirement" in Annex 2, paragraph 1.
1.2. PFC, Market Loss Assistance, Direct and Counter-Cyclical Payments (CCP) and Crop Insurance Subsidies Are "Support To" Upland Cotton
7. The narrow US specificity test of "tied to production" seeks to impose a "form" of specificity on the text of Article 13(b)(ii) that is not there. It further contradicts the only analogous criteria to Article 13(b)(ii) for calculating annual levels of support ­ the AMS calculation criteria of Annex 3. In addition, it contradicts the broad definition of "in favour of" in defining AMS in Article 1(a) of the Agreement on Agriculture, and the "in general" language of the same provision. The "substance" the United States seeks to avoid with this unjustified interpretation is the $12.9 billion dollars in payments for the production of upland cotton from MY 1999-present.
8. Applying its narrow specificity criteria, the United States argues that PFC, market loss assistance, direct and counter-cyclical payments as well as crop insurance subsidies are not "support to" upland cotton. Brazil presents evidence that all five domestic support measures provide "support to" the production of upland cotton between MY 1999-2002.
1.2.1. Production Flexibility Contract Payments
9. Brazil has presented considerable evidence demonstrating that PFC payments to holders of upland cotton base acreage in MY 1999-2001 are support to upland cotton. The 1996 FAIR Act established a specific payment formula permitting those upland cotton farmers who had traditionally farmed upland cotton to continue to receive payments following the elimination of the deficiency payment program. The 1996 FAIR Act singled out upland cotton and only six other crops for such PFC payments. Recipients were "producers" who "shared in the risk of producing a crop", and who farmed one of the seven crops in the three immediate years prior to the 1996 FAIR Act (MY 199395). Only a small minority of the producers of crops in the United States received PFC (and market loss assistance) payments. Brazil has demonstrated that between MY 1999-2001, the seven types of programme crops receiving PFC represented on average between MY 1999-2001 only 14.19 per cent of total US farm revenue. In addition, the total acreage of the seven PFC and market loss assistance crops in MY 2001 represented only 22 per cent of total US farmland. Thus, PFC payments were not provided to US producers in general.
10. The best available evidence demonstrates that upland cotton producers during MY 1999-2001 received PFC (and market loss assistance) payments. USDA reported that 97 per cent of farms producing upland cotton representing 99 per cent of upland cotton acreage from MY 1993-95 signed up to receive upland cotton PFC payments for MY 1996-2001. Upland cotton base acreage under the PFC (and market loss assistance) programme was 16.2 million acres. Between MY 1999-2001, the average acreage planted to upland cotton was 15.24 million acres. In addition, USDA reported that 95.7 per cent of the 16.2 million US upland cotton base acreage was planted to PFC programme crops in MY 2001 ­ a higher percentage than for any of the other 6 types of PFC programme crops. Thus, the evidence suggests that upland cotton producers in MY 1999-2001 were receiving PFC (and market loss assistance) payments.
11. Brazil has presented evidence demonstrating that PFC payments have production and trade distorting effects that arise from the prohibition on planting fruits, vegetables, and wild rice, as well as from the various "wealth effects" that result from the size of the subsidy averaging more than 15 per cent of the market value of upland cotton between MY 1999-2001. These effects provide further

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-5
confirming evidence that the selected, targeted PFC (and market loss assistance) payments are support to upland cotton.
1.2.2. Market Loss Assistance Payments
12. The evidence provided by Brazil with respect to PFC payments is also relevant to market loss assistance payments because these payments were made only to farmers with PFC contracts for the seven PFC crops, and additionally to soybeans. Thus, historic upland cotton producers (producing upland cotton in MY 1993-1995) received "upland cotton-specific" market loss assistance payments in MY 1998-2001. Even with the addition of soybeans, these 8 crops only represented on average 20.75 per cent of total US farm revenue in MY 1999-2001. PFC crop base acreage and soybean acreage in MY 2001 represented only 29 per cent of total US farmland. Thus, as with PFC payments, market loss assistance payments were not paid to US agricultural producers in general but rather to only a select group of US producers.
13. The evidence presented by Brazil indicates that while producers holding PFC/market loss assistance base acreage had the legal "freedom to farm" different crops, if they produced upland cotton, they would suffer adverse financial consequences unless they produced upland cotton on upland cotton, corn or rice base acres. The evidence highlights the practical impossibility of growing upland cotton without any type of PFC and market loss assistance payment in MY 2001. This evidence confirms NCC statements and supports a conclusion that any upland cotton produced in MY 1999-2001 ­ as a matter of economic reality and viability ­ needed and received PFC and market loss assistance payments to meet the high cost of production.
14. Further evidence that market loss assistance payments are support to upland cotton stems from the fact that the United States notified these subsidies as trade and production distorting amber box support. The evidence demonstrates that the targeted market loss assistance payments triggered by market price declines have even more trade and production-distorting effects than PFC payments. Further, as with PFC payments, production and trade distortions occurred because of the prohibition or restriction on receiving such payments based on growing fruits, vegetables, or wild rice. The production and trade-distorting effects on upland cotton are further confirmed by the fact that market loss assistance payments represented on average 17.87 per cent of the market value of upland cotton between MY 1999-2001. Thus, even though upland cotton producers were not required to produce upland cotton to receive market loss assistance payments, the record demonstrates that they continued to produce upland cotton between MY 1999-2001, and they continued to benefit from the 17.87 per cent subsidies represented by these payments.
1.2.3. Direct Payments
15. Direct payments are targeted support to "producers" farming, inter alia, on upland cotton base acreage. The eligible upland cotton producers who grew upland cotton in MY 1998-2001 (or in MY 1993-95) ­ together with eligible producers of only nine other crops ­ are a select group, who grew crops representing only 23.49 per cent of total farm cash receipts and 30 per cent of total US farm acreage. Thus, direct payments are not available to the great majority of US producers of agricultural commodities, i.e., they are not provided to US agricultural producers in general.
16. The United States argues that direct payments and CCP payments are not "support to upland cotton" because there is no legal requirement under the 2002 FSRI Act for holders of upland cotton base acreage to grow upland cotton. However, Brazil has demonstrated that the theoretical legal planting flexibility in the 2002 FSRI Act is not reflected in the economic reality of growing high-cost crops like upland cotton. Farmers who did plant the 14.2 million acres of upland cotton for MY 2002 could only have covered their costs by receiving upland cotton, rice or peanut direct payments and counter-cyclical payments. This evidence strongly confirms what the NCC officials have stated

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-6
repeatedly, that their members need, rely on, and receive direct payment and counter-cyclical payment support. And this evidence refutes the United States argument that the legal flexibility to grow other crops ­ or not produce at all ­ is the single relevant fact justifying a finding that direct payments and CCP payments did not support upland cotton in MY 2002.
17. Further evidence that direct payments are support to upland cotton is derived from the effects on upland cotton production caused by the updating of the base acreage between the PFC and the direct payment programmes. Brazil has presented evidence indicating that this updating creates a relinkage between production and the direct (and counter-cyclical) payments. Production effects are also caused by channeling the payments into crops other than fruits, vegetables, and wild rice. Further, the size of the subsidy (over 15 per cent of the current upland cotton market value) also contributes to wealth creation that has production effects. These production effects demonstrate that the direct payments (and CCP payments) are not de-linked from production ­ as argued by the United States ­ and support a conclusion that they are support to upland cotton.
1.2.5. Counter-Cyclical Payments
18. The United States argues that because producers receiving CCP payments are not required to produce upland cotton to receive payments, these payments cannot, as a matter of law, be considered support to upland cotton within the meaning of Article 13(b)(ii). Nevertheless, the evidence provided by Brazil demonstrates that CCP funds in MY 2002 paid to "historic" (i.e., 1998-2001 or 1993-1995) upland cotton producers are paid to a tiny fraction of total US producers of agricultural commodities and not to US producers of agricultural products "in general". Further, the evidence supports the conclusion that the recipients of these payments in MY 2002 needed these payments to continue producing upland cotton. They constitute "support to upland cotton".
19. Moreover, CCP payments create additional production effects due to the "base-update" permitted under the 2002 FSRI Act for both base yields and base acreage compared to market loss assistance payments. Further, the fruits, vegetables, and wild rice prohibitions or restrictions channel production into upland cotton. This evidence collectively supports a conclusion that CCP payments are "support to upland cotton".
1.2.6. Crop Insurance Payments
20. Brazil has demonstrated that upland cotton farmer benefit from specialized and specific crop insurance policies provided under the 2000 Agricultural Risk protection Act. Premium subsidies are directly tied to the amount of acreage planted by an upland cotton farmer. Also the participation rate, the share of policies at higher buy-up levels and the crop insurance loss ratio are higher for upland cotton than for other crops. This is confirmed by USDA's own economists, who have found that crop insurance subsidies cause much higher production and export effects for upland cotton than for other crops. In sum, crop insurance subsidies tied directly to the production of upland cotton are "support to a specific commodity" for the purposes of Article 13(b)(ii).
1.3. The US Support to Upland Cotton in MY 1999-2002 Exceeded the Support Decided in MY 1992
21. The United States has raised a number of post hoc arguments related to a supposed "rate of support" decision it alleges to have made during MY 1992. In the SAA, the United States stated that Members would have peace clause protection from adverse effects and serious prejudice challenges in the WTO "unless the AMS for the particular commodity exceeds the level decided in the 1992 marketing year". The phrase "AMS for the particular commodity" is an explicit recognition by the United States of the test in Annex 3, paragraph 6 which states: "For each basic agricultural product, a specific AMS shall be established expressed in total monetary terms." The US "rate of support"

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-7
methodology is not an expression in "total monetary terms," nor does it permit such a calculation. There are only two types of methodologies that would allow an expression in monetary terms of a decision (or decisions) taken by the United States in MY 1992 regarding its level of support to upland cotton: "using budgetary outlays" or the "gap between the fixed reference price and the applied administered price multiplied by the quantity of production eligible to receive the administered price".
22. Brazil disagrees with the United States' assertion that it did not "decide" on budgetary outlays. The alleged US decision to provide a rate of support must necessarily be accompanied by a decision to authorize whatever budgetary outlays would be necessary to meet the rate of support. The United States took specific administrative decisions which meant that the United States decided on the payment rates that resulted from the "rate of support" and, therefore, on the amount of budgetary outlays it would use from its unlimited spending authority. For the United States to argue, post hoc, that these decisions did not also include expenditures is inconsistent with its SAA interpretation of the peace clause that the 1992 decision must be expressed in "total monetary terms."
23. Brazil has demonstrated that expenditures for MY 1992 are lower than they are for any of the marketing years from 1999-2002. Therefore, under this methodology, the United States has no peace clause exemption for MY 1999-2002. While Brazil does not believe that calculating the upland cotton AMS based on the AMS methodology in Annex 3 is the appropriate methodology ­ based on the absence of the terms "AMS", "product-specific" and "non-product-specific" in Article 13(b)(ii) ­ Brazil has provided evidence that by using this methodology the United States support to the basic agricultural commodity "upland cotton" exceeded the support decided during the 1992 marketing year in all marketing years from 1999-2002.
24. In the event the Panel decides not to use a "total monetary value" methodology, then there are two "rate of support" methodologies: (1) budgetary outlays per pound of support, and (2) the expected guaranteed income rate of support set out in Professor Sumner's analysis. Brazil has provided extensive analysis of each of these two methodologies. However, Brazil does not endorse either methodology.
25. Brazil has demonstrated that the preferable methodology would be to rely on budgetary outlays per pound of upland cotton production. Professor Sumner's approach should be used only as an alternative to the simplistic US "72.9 methodology" because it is much more accurate than the United States approach accounting for eligibility criteria, effective programme limitations and costs that the US ignores. In any event, Brazil has demonstrated that also under both rate of support methodologies the US support in MY 1999-2002 exceeds the support decided during MY 1992
26. Any methodology that does not account for eligibility and effective participation criteria is inconsistent with Article 13(b)(ii). It is also inconsistent with the context of Article 13(b)(ii) which includes Annex 3, paragraphs 8 and 10 requiring calculation of the monetary value of support by factoring in "production eligible to receive the administered price." And it is also inconsistent with object and purpose of the Agreement on Agriculture, which is ­ after all ­ "correcting and preventing restrictions and distortions in world agricultural markets."

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-8
1.4. Challenges to Actionable Subsidies under Article 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement and Article XVI of GATT 1994 Are Not Limited to the Marketing Year in which a WTO Panel Is Established
27. The United States argues that the Panel may only count current US non-green box support in determining whether the United States enjoys peace clause exemption under Article 13(b). Applying a strict "statute of limitations" approach, the United States argues that Brazil (1) cannot challenge any US trade and production-distorting agricultural support for MY 2001 (or MY 2000, or MY 1999) because it did not ensure that the Panel was established during MY 2001 (or MY 2000, or MY 1999), and (2) it cannot challenge all of the trade and production-distorting support for all of MY 2002 because it did not ensure that the Panel was established by 31 July 2003 ­ the last day of the 2002 marketing year. The United States goes so far as to argue that the Panel may only compare MY 1992 support decided with partial MY 2002 data through 18 March 2003 ­ the date the Panel was established. According to the US theory, the only date the Panel could have been established to ensure comparison with full MY 2002 data would have been 31 July 2003 ­ the last day of MY 2002.
28. Brazil has demonstrated that the United States has constructed an irrational interpretation of Article 13(b)(ii). It is bizarre to interpret Article 13(b)(ii) in a way that requires Members to carefully "time" a request for establishment of a panel to maximize the amount of support to be counted for the "current" marketing year. Nothing in the "present tense" of Article 13(b)(ii) compels this result. The Panel must interpret Article 13(b)(ii) according to its ordinary meaning and with regard to its context. The relevant context is Articles 1(h)(ii) and 6.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture. The Korea ­ Beef dispute exemplifies that a Member can challenge violations of "Current Total AMS" at any time after a marketing year ends. The ability of challenging Current Total AMS violations in later years by analogy suggests that non-conformity with the peace clause requirements in much the same way leads to lifting the peace clause exemption also for marketing years other than the current marketing year. Thus, the proper interpretation of Article 13(b)(ii) permits actionable subsidy challenges under the SCM Agreement and GATT Article XVI:1 for any marketing year for which peace clause exemption does not exist ­ under either its chapeau (Current Total AMS) or the proviso of Article 13(b)(ii).
2. The GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Constitute Export Subsidies in Violation of Articles 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture, and Item (j) and Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement
29. Brazil has demonstrated that the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP export credit guarantee programmes administered by the CCC constitute export subsidies within the meaning of Articles 10.1, 1(e) and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture, Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, and item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies attached as Annex I to the SCM Agreement. Brazil also demonstrated that those export subsidies circumvent, or threaten to circumvent, the United States' export subsidy reduction commitments, in violation of Articles 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture. Additionally, because they violate the Agreement on Agriculture, these programmes are not exempt from actions by Article 13(c)(ii) of the Agreement on Agriculture, and constitute prohibited export subsidies within the meaning of item (j) and Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement.
30. Article 10.2 does not, as the United States asserts, carve out export credit guarantees from the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture, including the anti-circumvention provisions of Article 10.1. The Appellate Body concluded that exemptions and carve-outs from general obligations must be provided for explicitly in the text of an agreement. Article 10.2 includes no such explicit carve-out or exemption. Rather, Article 10.2 announces Members' intent to work toward negotiations on specific disciplines for export credits. In the meantime, the general disciplines on export subsidies included in the Agreement on Agriculture apply to export credits.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-9
2.1. CCC Export Credit Guarantees Constitute Export Subsidies under Articles 1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement
31. Brazil notes that CCC export credit guarantees are "financial contributions" within the meaning of Article 1.1(a)(1)(i) of the SCM Agreement. Since CCC export credit guarantees are unique financing vehicles for agricultural commodity transactions that are not available on the commercial market, let alone on terms consistent with the market, they confer "benefits" within the meaning of Article 1.1(b) of the SCM Agreement. Brazil presents the affidavit of Marcelo Pinheiro Franco from the Brazilian Export Credit Insurance Agency who confirms that no
comparable market-based export credit guarantees or financing instruments for international transactions involving agricultural commodities [exist] that provide these same terms [as the GSM and SCGP programmes].
32. Further, the United States compares agricultural export credit guarantees to export credit insurance for agricultural commodities, which it asserts is available on the private commercial market. However, it acknowledges that insurance coverage is structured altogether differently from guarantee coverage. Thus, even if the United States had proven its assertion with evidence, it acknowledges that the market for private insurance cannot serve as a benchmark against which to determine whether CCC guarantees confer "benefits".
33. Finally, CCC guarantees are contingent in law on export performance and therefore constitute prohibited export subsidies under Article 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement.
34. Lastly, Brazil recalls that since the United States surpassed its quantity commitment levels, Article 10.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture allocates the burden to the United States to prove that its excess exports did not benefit from export subsidies, including export credit guarantees.
2.2. The CCC Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Constitute Export Subsidies under Item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies
35. Brazil has demonstrated that the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes also constitute export subsidies because they charge premium rates that are inadequate to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the programmes, within the meaning of item (j) of the Illustrative List. Item (j) does not require the Panel to endorse any particular methodology or formula for determining whether the CCC programmes cover their long-term operating costs and losses, or to decide by precisely how much those costs and losses exceed premiums collected. Rather, Brazil has provided the Panel with numerous alternatives, each of which demonstrates that long-term operating costs and losses for the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes outpace premiums collected, including data under the FCRA, Brazil' constructed formula, data from CCC's 2002 financial statements reporting large uncollectible amounts on post-1991 and pre-1992 guarantees, among others.
36. The United States criticizes the FCRA cost formula as inappropriate because it allegedly relies on "estimated" rather than "actual" data about the costs of the programmes. It is not true that the FCRA cost formula reflects only "an estimate of the long-term costs to the Government". A significant portion of the inputs into the FCRA cost formula reflect actual historical experience with borrowers, and actual contract terms such as interest rates, maturity, fees and grace periods.
37. Moreover, the results of the FCRA cost formula are modified throughout the lifetime of a cohort, pursuant to the "reestimation" process. The results of the reestimate process demonstrate that CCC has "los[t] money" during the period 1992-2002. When these total lifetime reestimates for all

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-10
cohorts of guarantees disbursed since 1992 are netted against the total original subsidy estimates adopted each budget year during the period 1992-2002, the resulting loss is nearly $1.75 billion.
38. The implication of the United States' position concerning "estimated data" is that it is impossible to judge whether premiums for the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes have covered operating costs and losses until all guarantee cohorts for a period constituting the "long term" are closed, so that purely "actual" rather than partial "estimate" data are available. Because all cohorts disbursed since the inception of federal credit reform remain open, the United States effectively argues that it is impossible for this Panel to judge whether the CCC guarantee programmes satisfy the elements of item (j). Brazil notes however that the US Congress and the President have endorsed the use of the FCRA cost formula as the principal way to "measure more accurately the costs of Federal credit programmes", even in the budget year column of the US budget, let alone several years out, when cohorts have been subject to successive rounds of reestimates.
39. In closing, Brazil reminds the Panel that the US criticism regarding the use of "estimated" data does not address the many other bases apart from the FCRA formula on which Brazil has demonstrated that the long-term operating costs and losses of the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes exceed premiums paid.
2.3. The CCC Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Threaten to Circumvent US Export Subsidy Reduction Commitments
40. At paragraphs 295-305 of its First Submission, Brazil demonstrated that with respect to both unscheduled and scheduled commodities, the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP export subsidy programmes result in, or threaten to lead to, circumvention of the United States' export subsidy commitments, in violation of Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture. For the same reason, the United States violates Article 8, which requires a Member not to provide export subsidies otherwise than in conformity with the Agreement on Agriculture and with its scheduled commitments. The threat of circumvention for scheduled commodities is further enhanced by the fact that CCC is exempt from the requirement in the FCRA that a programme receive new Congressional budget authority before it undertakes new loan guarantee commitments. Mandatory programmes like the CCC export credit guarantee programmes must be available to all eligible borrowers, without regard to appropriations limits. In an important sense, this resembles the United States' FSC regime, which the Appellate Body found is available without limit. The Appellate Body considered that the unlimited nature of the regime posed a significant threat, under Article 10.1, that the United States would surpass its agricultural export subsidy reduction commitments.
2.4. The GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Constitute Export Subsidies in Violation of Item (j) and Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement
41. Since the CCC export credit guarantee programmes violate Articles 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture, the United States is not entitled to the "peace clause" exemption. Therefore, GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes constitute prohibited export subsidies, in violation of item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies, and of Articles 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement.
3. The Step 2 Export and Domestic Subsidies Are Prohibited Subsidies in Violation of Articles 3.1(a) and 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement
42. The United States asserts that all US upland cotton is eligible to receive Step 2 payments and that this removes the export and local content contingency. Brazil refutes the US assertion both as a

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-11
matter of law as well as fact. The Step 2 export provisions are not, as the United States now argues, simply domestic support payments made to US producers of upland cotton. Brazil again emphasizes that the US ­ FSC and Canada ­ Aircraft Appellate Body decisions are relevant jurisprudence and apply to the facts of the two situations set out in the regulations to Section 1207(a) of the 2002 FSRI Act. Thus, even if all US production since 1990 or even during MY 1999-2002 received Step 2 payments ­ which the United States has failed to document with any data ­ it would not remove the export and local content contingencies mandated by those regulations that violate SCM Agreement Articles 3.1(a) and (b).
43. US domestic Step 2 subsidies are prohibited local content subsidies in violation of Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement. There is no explicit derogation of Article 3.1(b) built into the Agreement on Agriculture. The United States argues that there is an inherent conflict between Annex 3, paragraph 7 and Article 6.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture with Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement because in the view of the United States, there can be no payments to processors of agricultural products included within AMS that do not violate Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement. Brazil demonstrates that this is not true and that there are subsidies to agricultural processors that do not violate Article 3.1(b) and presents various examples to that respect.
44. Finally, Brazil notes the EC argument that applying Article 3.1(b) of the SCM Agreement "would lead to stricter disciplines being applied to domestic subsidies than are applicable for industrial goods". Local content subsidies ­ whether for agricultural and industrial products ­ are prohibited by Article 3.1(b). As "prohibited" subsidies, they are subject to the ultimate discipline ­ they cannot legally exist. The two packages of disciplines for agricultural and industrial products have both been negotiated during the Uruguay Round. The resulting rules have to be interpreted according to the customary rules of treaty interpretation as contained in the Vienna Convention. This interpretation results in agricultural local content subsidies being prohibited. Whether that results in there being more or less strict disciplines than would be applicable to industrial subsidies is not a relevant consideration for the interpretation of the disciplines.
4. The ETI Act Subsidies Violate Articles 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture and Are Prohibited by Articles 3.1(a) and 3.2 of the SCM Agreement
45. Brazil has made a prima facie case with respect to its claims against the ETI Act. Brazil challenges exactly the same measure based on the same claims asserted by the EC that the panel and the Appellate Body in US ­ FSC (21.5) held to violate the Agreement on Agriculture and the SCM Agreement. The sole difference is that Brazil limits its claims to ETI Act subsidies benefiting the export of upland cotton only.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-12
ANNEX D-2
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE REBUTTAL SUBMISSION OF THE UNITED STATES
Introduction and Overview
1. The comparison under the Peace Clause proviso in Article 13(b)(ii) must be made with respect to the support as "decided" by those measures. In the case of the challenged US measures, the support was decided in terms of a rate, not an amount of budgetary outlay. The rate of support decided during marketing year 1992 was 72.9 cents per pound of upland cotton; the rate of support granted for the 1999-2001 crops was only 51.92 cents per pound; and the rate of support that measures grant for the 2002 crop is only 52 cents per pound. Thus, in no marketing year from 1999 through 2002 have US measures breached the Peace Clause.1
2. Brazil has claimed that additional "decisions" by the United States during the 1992 marketing year to impose a 10 per cent acreage reduction programme and 15 per cent "normal flex acres" reduced the level of support below 72.9 cents per pound. However, the 72.9 cents per pound rate of support most accurately expresses the revenue ensured by the United States to upland cotton producers. Even on the unrealistic assumption that these programme elements reduced the level of support by 10 and 15 per cent, respectively (that is, the maximum theoretical effect these programme elements could have had), the 1992 rate of support would still be 67.625 cents per pound, well above the levels for marketing years 1999-2001 and 2002.
3. Although such a comparison would not conform to the text, the result of the Peace Clause comparison is no different if one compares the support via an Aggregate Measurement of Support calculation. Using the price gap methodology (as provided under Annex 3 of the Agriculture Agreement) for US price-based deficiency payments and marketing loan payments, the upland cotton Aggregate Measurement of Support (in US $, millions) for these years is MY1992: 1,079; MY1999: 717; MY2000: 484; MY2001: 264; MY2002: 205. Again, in no marketing year from 1999 through 2002 have US measures breached the Peace Clause.
4. Finally, the analysis presented by Brazil's expert at the first panel meeting actually supports the United States, not Brazil. Removing the non-product-specific support that Brazil erroneously tries to pass off as support to upland cotton, Brazil's own expert calculates the total support per unit
1 Brazil has asserted that the United States' approach does not provide any way of taking Step 2 payments into account. Because the availability of Step 2 payments is contingent on certain price conditions existing during the marketing year, the level of support decided must relate to the payment parameters. These have remained the same for Step 2, with the exception of the suspension, through 2006, of the 1.25 cent price difference threshold and payment availability at slightly higher market prices. However, because Step 2 merely provides an alternative avenue of providing support (through processors rather than directly to producers), these minor adjustments do not alter the revenue ensured for producers by the marketing loan rate of 52 cents per pound. In addition, these minor adjustments cannot overcome the greater than 20 cents per pound difference in product-specific support between marketing years 1992 and 1999-2002. Similarly, and without prejudice to whether these measures are within the Panel's terms of reference, we note that cottonseed payments in 1999, 2000, and 2002 ranged in value between 0.6 to 2.3 cents per pound (factoring expenditures over production); thus, they too do not materially affect the comparison between marketing year 1992 and any other year.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-13
(cents/lb.) as MY1992: 60.05; MY1999: 53.79; MY2000: 55.09; MY2001: 52.82; MY2002: 56.32. Again, in no marketing year from 1999 through 2002 have US measures breached the Peace Clause.
5. Thus, whether gauged via the rate of support decided by US measures (whether or not adjusted for the acreage reduction programme and normal flex acres), or via the AMS for upland cotton (calculated through a price gap methodology), or via the calculations of Brazil's expert (limited to product-specific support), the result is exactly the same: in no marketing year from 1999 through 2002 have US measures breached the Peace Clause.
US Green Box Measures are "Exempt from Actions" Pursuant to Article 13(a)(ii)
6. A measure shall be deemed to meet the "fundamental requirement" of the first sentence of Annex 2 if it meets the basic criteria of the second sentence plus any applicable policy-specific criteria. As suggested by the use of the word "fundamental" ("from which others are derived") and the structure of Annex 2 (that is, beginning the second sentence with the word "accordingly"), compliance with the requirement ("something called for or demanded") of the first sentence will be demonstrated by conforming to the basic criteria of the second sentence plus the applicable policy-specific criteria of paragraphs 6 through 13.
7. Direct Payments: Eligibility for direct payments under the 2002 Act is based on criteria in a "defined and fixed base period " (paragraph 6(a)) in the ordinary meaning of those terms: a base period that is "definite" (set out in the 2002 Act) and "stationary or unchanging in a relative position" (does not change in relative position for the six-year duration of the 2002 Act).
8. Paragraph 6(a) establishes that eligibility for payments under a decoupled income support measure shall be determined by clearly-defined criteria in "a defined and fixed base period," not "the base period" (as in paragraph 9 of Annex 3, which is defined in that same paragraph as "the years 1986 to 1988"). Brazil's reading of "a defined and fixed base period" would read into that text the term "unchanging", language Brazil has proposed in the ongoing WTO negotiations but is not currently found in the Agreement.
9. Annex 2, by its terms, sets out the fundamental requirement and basic and (if applicable) policy-specific criteria to which green box "domestic support measures" must conform. Other provisions in the Agreement similarly establish that the criteria set out in Annex 2 apply to "domestic support measures". Thus, with respect to a given decoupled income support measure, eligibility for payments must be determined by criteria in a "defined and fixed base period".
10. Brazil argues that a new decoupled income support measure must be based on the same base period as a previous measure if the new measure "is essentially the same" or "[i]f the structure, design, and eligibility criteria have not significantly changed." There is no provision in Annex 2 or the Agreement on Agriculture that supports Brazil's approach. It is thus irrelevant whether two decoupled income support measures are "essentially the same".
11. Brazil would read paragraph 6(b) as requiring a Member to make support available for any type of production; a Member could not preclude a recipient from producing certain crops.2 While direct payments are reduced if certain crops are produced, a recipient need not produce any "type of"
2 Brazil's reading would also seemingly require a Member to make payments even if the recipient's production was illegal ­ for example, the production of narcotic crops such as opium poppy or the production of unapproved biotech varieties or environmentally damaging production (for example, planting on converted rain forest or wetlands) ­ because, under Brazil's approach, by reducing or eliminating payments for any of these production activities, a decoupled income support measure could be understood to base or relate the amount of payment to the "type" of production undertaken.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-14
crop in particular in order to receive the full payment for which a farm is eligible; the recipient need merely refrain from producing the forbidden fruit or vegetable. Thus, it is not any "type . . . of production . . . undertaken by the producer" that results in the full direct payment but rather production not undertaken by the producer ­ that is, ceasing certain production.
12. Production Flexibility Contract Payments: Production flexibility contract payments (now expired) were made with respect to farm acreage that was devoted to agricultural production in the past, including acreage previously devoted to upland cotton production. The payments, however, were made regardless of whether upland cotton was produced on those acres or whether anything was produced at all. As with direct payments, because production flexibility contract payments were decoupled from production, they met the five policy-specific criteria set out in paragraph 6 for decoupled income support measures.
13. Brazil has failed to make a prima facie case that US green box measures do not satisfy the fundamental requirement of Annex 2.3 In fact, Brazil's "evidence" consists simply of selectively quoting and emphasizing conceptual and theoretical statements from the economic literature. None of the papers Brazil cites concludes that these payments in particular, or decoupled income support measures in general, have more than "minimal[] trade-distorting effects or effects on production."
14. The Agreement on Agriculture does not define a numerical threshold on what degree of effects will be considered "minimal[] trade-distorting effects or effects on production". However, given that no study has found that these payments have effects on production of more than one per cent, it would appear that direct payments have and production flexibility contract payments had no more than "minimal[] trade-distorting effects or effects on production". Thus, not only has Brazil failed to present a prima facie case, but the United States has affirmatively shown that these payments satisfy the fundamental requirement of the first sentence of Annex 2.
US Non-Green Box Domestic Support Measures are not in Breach of Article 13(b)(ii)
15. : Peace Clause Proviso ­ Support was "Decided" During Marketing Year 1992 Using a Rate, Not a Budgetary Outlay: The Peace Clause proviso requires a comparison to the product-specific support "decided" during the 1992 marketing year. A Member cannot "decide" world market prices or actual production or any other element outside a government's control. Yet Brazil would read the Peace Clause as though Members were omnipotent and could "decide" every factor influencing support.
16. Brazil lists nine different "decisions taken by the United States in relation to MY 1992 upland cotton support programmes". At least three of these "decisions" relate to the rate of support and not a single decision relating to budgetary outlays or market prices. Thus, Brazil's own answer confirms that the proper analysis of the support "decided" by US measures is to look to the terms of the US measures, which set a rate of support.
17. The use of the term "grant" in the Peace Clause proviso with respect to challenged measures does not compel an examination of budgetary outlays. The ordinary meaning of "grant" is to "bestow as a favour" or "give or confer (a possession, a right, etc.) formally". Thus, the use of the term "grant" would permit an evaluation of the rate of support that challenged measures "give or confer . . . formally". Members did not choose to use the word "granted" in place of "decided," and a valid
3 If, as Brazil has argued, the first sentence is "fundamental" and has independent force, then presumably if a measure meets that "fundamental requirement", it will be deemed to be green box, irrespective of whether it meets the subordinate basic and policy-specific criteria. Thus, on Brazil's reading, if a measure does not conform to the criteria in Annex 2, it still could meet the "fundamental requirement", and the complaining party would bear the burden of proof to demonstrate a measure's inconsistency with that provision.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-15
interpretation must make sense of that choice rather than reading it out of the Agreement. In addition, had Members intended the Peace Clause comparison to be made solely on the basis of budgetary outlays, they could have used that term, which is a defined term in Article 1(c) and used frequently in the Agreement.
18. Peace Clause Proviso ­ "Support to a Specific Commodity" Means Product-Specific Support: The phrase "support to a specific commodity" means "product-specific support". That the Peace Clause does not use the phrase "product-specific support" is neither surprising nor telling. The basic definition of product-specific support is given in Article 1(a), as "support . . . provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product." Article 1(h) also refers to the concept but does not use the exact phrase "product-specific support"; in fact, the language this provision uses ("support for basic agricultural products") is strikingly similar to the Peace Clause proviso ("support to a specific commodity"). Neither Article 1(a) nor 1(h) even uses the term "specific" whereas the Peace Clause contains all three elements of that phrase (product, specific, and support).
19. Brazil Simply Ignores the Definition of Product-Specific Support in the Agreement on Agriculture: Brazil argues that certain challenged US measures are not "non-product-specific" and therefore must be "support to a specific commodity." Brazil focuses on the definition of "non-product-specific" support in Article 1(a) but simply fails to interpret that definition in light of the definition of product-specific support that immediately precedes it. The universe of domestic support measures under Article 1(a) consists of product-specific support and non-product-specific support; these two parts must be read together and in harmony.
20. The definition of product-specific support consists of two elements: First, the support must be provided "for an agricultural product," that is, the subsidy is given "in favour of" a product and not in respect of criteria not related to the product or in respect of multiple products. Second, such support is "in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product", which suggests that subsidy benefits those who produce the product ­ that is, production is necessary for the support to be received. Both of these elements must be present for support to be product-specific since, should either be missing, the definition would not be satisfied.
21. The second category of support in Article 1(a) is defined as "non-product-specific support provided in favour of agricultural producers in general." The ordinary meaning of "in general" is "in general terms, generally". Non-product-specific support cannot be interpreted as support provided "for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product" because to do so would reduce the first half of the Article 1(a) definition to redundancy or inutility. Thus, non-product-specific support is support in favour of agricultural producers "generally" ­ that is, a residual category of support covering those measures that do not fall within the more detailed criteria set out in the definition of product-specific support.
22. Counter-Cyclical Payments are Non-Product-Specific Support: Counter-cyclical payments are non-product-specific support. The payment formula for counter-cyclical payments demonstrates that these payments are not "provided for an agricultural product" because a recipient need not currently produce upland cotton (or any other crop) to receive payment. In addition, it is not "the producers of the basic agricultural product" ­ that is, current upland cotton growers ­ that are entitled to receive the counter-cyclical payments but rather persons (farmers and landowners) on farm acres with past histories of producing covered commodities, including upland cotton, during the base period. Thus, counter-cyclical payments satisfy neither element of the definition of product-specific support and do not form part of the Peace Clause comparison.
23. Despite Brazil's attempts to mischaracterize the two as similar, counter-cyclical payments and deficiency payments differ in crucial respects. To receive a deficiency payment, a producer was

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-16
required to plant upland cotton for harvest and would be paid on the acres planted to upland cotton for harvest up to the maximum payment acreage. Thus, deficiency payments were support for an agricultural product (upland cotton) in favour of the producers of the product. By contrast, to receive the counter-cyclical payment a person with "upland cotton base acres" need not plant for harvest or produce upland cotton (nor any other crop nor any crop at all). Thus, counter-cyclical payments do not provide support for "an agricultural product" in favour of " the producers" of the basic agricultural product and do not form part of the Peace Clause comparison under the proviso in Article 13(b)(ii).
24. Crop Insurance Payments Provide Non-Product-Specific Support: Crop insurance is not support "provided for an agricultural product". For marketing year 2002, crop insurance payments are available to approximately 100 agricultural commodities, representing approximately 80 per cent of US area planted and greater than 85 per cent of the value of all US crops. Support which is provided to a number of crops is not "support to a specific commodity"; it is ` support to several commodities' or `support to more than one commodity' and does not form part of the Peace Clause comparison. The United States notifies crop insurance as non-product-specific "amber box" domestic support subject to US reduction commitments. No WTO Member has notified crop insurance programmes as product-specific; in fact, Hungary, Canada, the EC, and Japan have notified crop insurance programmes as non-product-specific support. The United States is not aware of any other Member's crop insurance programme that has as broad product coverage as the US programme.
25. Market Loss Assistance Payments are Non-Product-Specific Support: As indicated in the US 1999 WTO domestic support notification (G/AG/N/USA/43), the expired market loss assistance payments were non-product-specific support. As with production flexibility contract payments, market loss assistance payments were made to persons with farm acres that previously had been devoted to production of certain crops, including upland cotton, during an historical base period. A recipient was not required to produce upland cotton or any other crop in order to receive payment, and no production was required at all. Thus, these payments are not product-specific support and would not form part of the Peace Clause proviso comparison.
26. Direct Payments: Were the Panel to conclude that direct payments do not conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2, direct payments would be non-product-specific support. As with counter-cyclical payments, direct payments are based on quantities of acreage that historically produced cotton, and there is no requirement to produce upland cotton (or any other crop) to receive these payments. Thus, direct payments would not be product-specific support.
27. Production Flexibility Contract Payments: Were the Panel to consider that these payments are within its terms of reference, the United States has explained that they would be green box support. Were the Panel to conclude further that production flexibility contract payments do not conform fully to the provisions of Annex 2, these payments would also be non-product-specific support for the reasons given with respect to direct payments. As such, they would not form part of the Peace Clause proviso comparison.
28. Cottonseed Payments: The Agricultural Assistance Act of 2003 and the cottonseed payment made pursuant to it is not within the Panel's terms of reference because the legislation authorizing the payments had not even been enacted at the time of Brazil's panel request, much less its consultation request. The "legal instruments" pursuant to which prior cottonseed payments were made, moreover, do not appear in Brazil's consultation or panel requests. Thus, it would appear that cottonseed payments for the 1999 and 2000 crops of cottonseed also do not form part of the Panel's terms of reference.
29. Peace Clause Comparison ­ The Product-Specific AMS for Upland Cotton Also Demonstrates That Challenged US Measures Do Not Breach the Peace Clause: The United States believes the Peace Clause compels comparing the rate of support decided by US

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-17
measures, whether or not adjusted for the acreage reduction programme and normal flex acres, with the current rate of support. Were the Panel to determine to use an Aggregate Measurement of Support calculation, however, the price gap methodology is the only appropriate one for Peace Clause purposes.
30. The price gap methodology eliminates the effect of prevailing market prices on the calculation of support. Instead, paragraphs 10 and 11 of Annex 3 designate that the support be calculated by multiplying the quantity of eligible production by the gap between the applied administered price (for example, the marketing loan rate) and the fixed reference price (that is, the actual price for determining payment rates for the years 1986 to 1988). Thus, by holding the reference price "fixed", support measured using a price gap calculation shows the effect of changes in the level of support (applied administered price) decided by a Member, rather than changes in outlays that result from movements in market prices that a Member does not control. In fact, the United States has calculated an AMS for upland cotton using the price gap methodology for both deficiency payments and marketing loan payments (marketing loan gains, certificate exchange gains, and loan deficiency payments) and using budgetary outlays for all other payments. The result is exactly the same as a rate of support comparison: in no marketing year from 1999 through 2002 is the support US measures grant in excess of the 1992 marketing year level.
US Export Credit Guarantee Programme
31. The Negotiating History of Article 10.2 Reveals that the Negotiators Explicitly Deferred the Application of All Export Subsidy Disciplines on Export Credit Guarantees: The GATT/WTO negotiating history regarding export credits and export credit guarantees in agriculture supports the US interpretation of Article 10.2. On 24 June 1991, Chairman Dunkel circulated a Note on Options in the Agriculture Negotiations requesting decisions by the principals on "whether subsidized export credits and related practices . . . would be subject to reduction commitments". Subsequently, on 2 August 1991, he circulated a proposed "Illustrative List of Export Subsidy Practices." Item (h) is explicitly "Export Credits provided by governments or their agencies on less than fully commercial terms." Similarly, item (i) is "Subsidized export credit guarantees or insurance programmes."
32. On 20 December 1991, the "Draft Final Act Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations" was issued. Article 10.2 of the Draft Final Act states: "Participants undertake not to provide export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes otherwise than in conformity with internationally agreed disciplines" (emphasis added). This draft text would clearly prohibit the use of export credit guarantees except in conformity with agreed disciplines. Such internationally agreed disciplines would include those contemplated by the SCM Agreement. This would be precisely the language necessary to support Brazil's reading.
33. Ironically, Brazil's interpretation would require export credit guarantees in agriculture to be subject to greater disciplines than any other practice addressed in the Agreement on Agriculture. Under Brazil's view, not only would export credit guarantees constitute export subsidies and be subject to all of the export subsidy disciplines, but Members would also be specifically obligated to work toward and then apply additional disciplines.
34. Brazil's approach would result in gross injustice: As part of the negotiations, the parties had to prepare and submit schedules of quantities and budget outlays during a base period to derive the export subsidy reduction commitments ultimately reflected in the respective schedules of the Members. Had Members' export credit guarantees been considered export subsidies for these purposes from the outset, then the export credit guarantee activity during the base period would also have to have been added to the base figures from which each Member's export subsidy reduction commitments were calculated. For example, the United States has no export subsidy reduction

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-18
commitment with respect to corn, yet during the 1986-1990 base period an average of over 5.5 million tons of corn were exported each year under the GSM-102 and GSM-103 programmes. The United States would have reduction commitments for many more products than currently and would have had significantly increased commitments for the 13 products that are scheduled. However, Brazil would have the Panel impose the disciplines now but deny Members the corresponding changes in reduction commitments. Brazil's approach would be grossly inequitable and the Panel should reject it.
35. The Application of Government-Wide Accounting Rules Indicates that the Export Credit Guarantee Programmes are Covering Long-Term Operating Costs and Losses: The application of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 ("FCRA") over time to the export credit guarantee programmes as a whole currently indicates that the net result of all activity associated with export credit guarantees issued in fiscal years 1994 and 1995 is a total net receipt to the United States of $29 million. The experience of 1994 and 1995 is viewed as representative, and the United States expects that the net results for other years will be similar to the experience for 1994 and 1995. Re-estimates thus far have resulted in a net reduction in the estimated costs of these programmes of over $1.9 billion since the inception of credit reform budgeting in fiscal year 1992. Based on those results, the Brazilian claim that "operating costs and losses for GSM 102, GSM 103, and SCGP have outpaced premiums collected in every single year since the United States started applying the formula in 1992" is not supportable.
36. The United States has gathered cumulative reestimates on a cohort basis: For example, for cohort 1992 (not yet closed) the current data reflects an estimate of a profit to the United States of approximately $124 million; for 1993 (not yet closed), the corresponding current figure is a profit of approximately $56 million; and, as indicated, cohorts 1994 and 1995 together project a profit of $29 million. With the exception of 2002, for which only very recent data is necessarily available, the Panel will note that the trend for all cohorts is uniformly favourable as compared to the original subsidy estimate.
37. Brazil asserts that "historically, the majority of GSM support that is rescheduled is `in arrears'" and that this increases costs. Brazil largely relies, however, on a 1990 government report that is dated and precedes FCRA itself. No rescheduling applicable to export credit guarantees issued in fiscal year 1992 or later is in arrears.
38. Brazil's Suggestion to Use Estimated Data to Determine Long-Term Costs and Losses Supports the View that the Export Credit Guarantees Do Not Provide Export Subsidies: The United States notes Brazil's statement that "a certain degree of estimated data would be perfectly acceptable in an analysis of the costs and losses of guarantee programmes under item(j)" for two reasons. First, the re-estimate process for fiscal years 1994, 1995, and virtually every other year since fiscal year 1992 indicates a very strong net positive trend with respect to the programmes and that therefore current premium rates do cover long-term operating costs and losses. Second, it is relevant with respect to Brazil's reliance on the significant losses that the United States admittedly incurred with respect to Poland and Iraq. Presumably, to attempt to recover such losses in any practical time frame would require such a prohibitive fee increase that few, if any, exporters would take advantage of the program. Consequently, the United States would be whipsawed by a prohibition on the export credit guarantee as currently constituted because of the large losses incurred between 10 and 20 years ago, and the inability to create a conforming programme because the fee structure necessary to compensate for such historical losses would foreclose use of the programme. Item (j) cannot be reasonably interpreted to require an examination of all activity since the beginning of a programme, no matter how old it may be. The data provided with respect to fiscal years 1994 and 1995 and for the programmes as a whole indicates that current premium rates are presently adequate to cover long-term operating costs and losses as currently projected. The United States is also in a net positive position with respect to cotton transactions in the ten years commencing with fiscal year 1993.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-19
39. The Export Credit Guarantee Programmes Are Not Applied in a Manner which Results in or which Threatens to Lead to, Circumvention of Export Subsidy Commitments: Brazil has challenged the export credit guarantee programmes, GSM 102, GSM 103, and SCGP, as such. Brazil has failed, however, to demonstrate that these programmes as such mandate a violation of US WTO obligations. It is well established under GATT and WTO jurisprudence that legislation of a Member violates that Member's WTO obligations only if the legislation mandates action that is inconsistent with those obligations or precludes action that is consistent with those obligations. If the legislation provides discretion to administrative authorities to act in a WTO-consistent manner, the legislation, as such, does not violate a Member's WTO obligations. This distinction has continued under the WTO system.
40. The Commodity Credit Corporation ("CCC") has complete statutory and regulatory discretion at any time not to issue guarantees with respect to any individual application for an export credit guarantee or to suspend the issuance of export credit guarantees under any particular allocation. This is in marked contrast to the situation in US- FSC, in which the Appellate Body found a threat of circumvention because the FSC legislation created a legal entitlement to the payment. There is no statutory legal entitlement to an export credit guarantee. Furthermore, even if an application and fee are received, the applicant is not necessarily entitled to receive the guarantee. Issuance is discretionary.
41. Finally, Brazil has alleged that the United States has exceeded its quantitative export subsidy reduction commitments during the period July 2001-June 2002. Even if the export credit guarantee programmes were deemed export subsidies, the United States would be in compliance with the quantitative reduction commitments for that period with respect to wheat, coarse grains, butter and butter oil, skim milk powder, cheese, other milk products, bovine meat, live dairy cattle, and eggs. This may also be true with respect to vegetable oil. In fiscal year 2002, it would also be true for poultry meat. The United States did not use the GSM-102 or GSM-103 programmes during 2001-2002 with respect to butter and butter oil, skim milk powder, cheese, other milk products, or eggs.
42. Financial Arrangements Analogous to the CCC Export Credit Guarantee Programmes are Available in the Marketplace: In light of Article 10.2, it is neither appropriate nor necessary to analyze the export credit guarantees with respect to Article 1.1(b) of the SCM Agreement. However, we note that financing is available in the marketplace that is analogous to export credit guarantees. A prominent example in the commercial market would be "forfaiting." It would appear, then, that a competitive marketplace exists for trade financing even in emerging markets where more conventional financing is not available. The United States is not privy to the precise terms at any time available in forfaiting transactions because those terms can vary by country, commodity, bank risk, size of transaction and numerous other factors. In addition, like most private financial activity, that information is ordinarily held confidentially by the parties.
The Step 2 Programme is not Contingent on Export Performance
43. Brazil apparently does not contest that all uses of upland cotton are eligible for the Step 2 subsidy. Instead, Brazil suggests, erroneously, that not the entire universe of users of upland cotton is eligible for the subsidy. First, the requirement that a recipient must be "regularly engaged" in the use of cotton is simply an anti-fraud provision to preclude an attempt to receive a payment with respect to cotton on which a payment has already been made. Brazil also correctly notes that "the eligible domestic user criteria exclude all firms that are domestic cotton brokers or simple resellers". These parties are not using the cotton and are therefore ineligible. Brazil suggests a third category of persons who are users but are not eligible to receive the payment: "firms that have not entered into CCC contracts" as either manufacturers or exporters. It is true that CCC cannot pay parties that

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-20
choose to remain unknown to it, but this requires an assumption of economic irrationality and does not diminish the point that all who use cotton have it entirely within their power to receive the subsidy.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-21
ANNEX D-3
BRAZIL'S COMMENTS ON US REBUTTAL SUBMISSION
27August 2003
1. Pursuant to the Panel's ruling of 23 August 2003, Brazil presents the following comments on the paragraphs listed below relating to the Rebuttal Submission of the United States of America. In addition, Brazil offers comments on Question 67a posed to the United States by the Panel's Communication of 25 August 2003.
Paragraph 43
2. In paragraph 43 of its Rebuttal Submission, the United States argues that "Brazil's reading would seemingly require a Member to make payments even if the recipient's production was illegal, for example the production of narcotic crops such as opium poppy or the production of unapproved biotech varieties or environmentally damaging production." The United States claims this would have "potentially far reaching results." This new argument has no merit.
3. The two examples provided by the United States involving the growing of illegal plants/crops are, by definition, situations in which a national (or state/regional) domestic criminal (or civil) law would prohibit or regulate the growing of such plants/crops. The criminal (or civil) law would operate separately from any de-coupled direct payment to prohibit or regulate all forms of such production. There would be no reason in that situation to have a further statute limiting the payment if such illegal plants (or illegal production methods) ­ the activity would already be illegal. That is exactly the case with the 1996 FAIR Act and the 2002 FSRI Act regarding PFC and direct payments respectively. Neither limits the amount of payments for the growing of plants that would be illegal under US law. There is no need to because US federal and/or State law already prohibits such activity.
4. In addition, the US example in paragraph 43 about a restriction on "environmentally damaging production" is not relevant because such a restriction does not relate to the "type" of production (i.e., the type of crop) but rather the "manner" of production.4 Therefore, Annex 2, paragraph 6(b), which focuses on the "type" of production related to the "amount" of payment, it does not address the manner in which production is conducted. The context of Annex 2, paragraph 6(b) includes Annex 2, paragraph 12 ("Payments under environmental programmes") which permits Members to impose specific conditions on the growing of crops in order to receive environmentally related direct payments.
5. Thus, the "potentially far-reaching results" 5 from Brazil's text-based approach to the ordinary meaning of "the amount of such payments" related to or based on the "type of production " do not and
4 See First Submission of Brazil, para. 157 in which Brazil makes the distinction between Paragraph 6(b) in which the word "type" relating to the type of crop produced contrasted with Paragraph 6(d) which is concerned with the type of production process. The United States has never contested this distinction.
5 The United States reference to "potentially far-reaching results" appears also to include its additional new argument in paragraph 43 relating to the EC's possible CAP reform imposing, inter alia, fruits and vegetable restrictions. That potential "reform" is obviously not at issue in this case. The EC will have to make a decision how to notify any such measure when it is required to do so under Article 18 of the Agreement on Agriculture. It goes without saying that an improperly categorized green box measure of one Member cannot be justified by relying on a possible future improperly categorized green box measure of another Member.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-22
will not exist. Brazil further notes that in the extraordinary situation in which one Member could theoretically seek to challenge a de-coupled direct payment limiting payments for growing plants such as opium poppy as an actionable subsidy, the Member restricting the "type" of production of such plants could, for instance, assert defences under Article XX(b) or (d) of GATT 1994.6
Paragraphs 96-98
6. The United States raises the new argument that "no other WTO Member has notified crop insurance programmes as product-specific."7 At the outset, Brazil notes that it is the US crop insurance programmes and the detailed record of the product-specific nature of the US crop insurance programmes that is at issue in this dispute ­ not those of other WTO Members.
7. None of the WTO notifications of the EC, Canada, or Japan cited by the United States reflect the existence of the type of special product-specific policies or special treatment for certain crops within a broader insurance programme. In particular, there is no indication that these Members provide any specific crop insurance provisions for a specific crop, such as the insurance programmes provided by the United States for upland cotton.8 For example, while Canada appears to have a similar programme for "crops" as the United States, there is no indication that Canada provides special polices or groups of policies within its broader programme for individual crops. Thus, in contrast to the evidence of other Member's insurance policies, the nature, type, value, and participation rate of the crop insurance policies provided by the United States differs widely among commodities. As Brazil has explained, it is simply not a "one size fits all" programme. The EC agrees. It has argued before the Committee on Agriculture that the US crop insurance programme is product-specific support.9
8. The United States further argues that it "is not aware of any crop insurance programme maintained by any other Member" that covers as many commodities as the United States.10 However, the Article 13(b)(ii) test is whether a specific commodity receives support from a domestic measure identified in the chapeau and whether there is some sort of a link between the support measure and the specific commodity. Evidence of such a link in the case of crop insurance exists, as with the US crop insurance programme, when particular commodities are provided special policies, coverage, or additional subsidies compared to other commodities covered by the crop insurance programme. There is no such evidence reflected in the notifications of Mexico whose notification states that "insurance premium subsidy [is] available for all producers."11 Japan's "Agricultural Insurance Scheme" also includes subsidies for policies covering all crops (except vegetables), all livestock (except poultry) and sericulture.12 By contrast, the US insurance programmes challenged by Brazil do not provide subsidies for any insurance for livestock or many other commodities. Indeed, the commodities not covered by the US 2000 ARP Act and relevant regulations represent more than half of the value of US farm cash receipts.13
6 These same exceptions would be available in the unlikely event a Member challenged a direct decoupled payment for any of the three scenarios posed by the United States in paragraph 43.
7 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 96-98. 8 See Rebuttal Submission of Brazil, paras 54 (special irrigation-related policies for upland cotton), para. 55 (upland cotton producers have much larger pool of insurance subsidies than other types of crops), para. 56 (specific upland cotton income protection policies and catastrophic risk protection), para 57 (much greater use of insurance subsidies than other crops), para. 58 (reinsurance payments for upland cotton). 9 Exhibit Bra-144 (G/AG/R/31, para. 31). 10 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 98. 11 G/AG/N/MEX/7, p. 4. 12 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 98. 13 Rebuttal Submission of Brazil, para. 59 (Excluded agricultural commodities from US insurance programme represent 52 per cent of the value of all US farm cash receipts).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-23
9. Finally, as the United States recognizes, more than half of the notifications (which include part of Japan's) cited by the United States refer to insurance programmes as green box support.14 Members so notifying are not obliged to make a determination under Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture whether such support is product-specific or not because it is exempt from any reduction commitments. The United States has not provided evidence suggesting these green box categorizations are incorrect. For these reasons, these notifications are also irrelevant.
Paragraphs 114-117
10. The United States argues for the first time in paragraphs 114-117 of its Rebuttal Submission that using the "price-gap" methodology is the appropriate way to calculate the portion of upland cotton AMS that stems from marketing loan gains, certificate exchange gains, and loan deficiency payments (collectively known as "marketing loan payments"). The effect of applying the price gap methodology would be to transform the $2.5 billion in budgetary expenditures for marketing loan payments in MY 2001 into a "negative" amount for purposes of total current AMS.15 The United States bases its new argument on an alleged statement by Brazil and "agrees" that "Brazil is correct when it states that a non-exempt direct payment dependent on a price gap may be calculated using a price gap methodology, rather than budgetary outlays. . .."16
11. The United States refers to Brazil's 11 August Answer to Question 67, paragraph 130, as the basis for its assertion. Brazil's statement cited by the United States reads as follows:
Brazil notes that the United States has notified the deficiency payments using the price gap methodology provided for in Annex 3. [footnote citing Exhibit Bra-150 (G/AG//N/USA/10)] Brazil considers it appropriate to follow the US decision and will therefore, calculate the amount of support to upland cotton provided by the deficiency payment programme by using the "price gap" approach detailed in Annex 3 paragraph 10 and 11.
Contrary to the US interpretation of this statement, Brazil's point was that any calculation of AMS for deficiency payments (and for the other programmes that require such calculation) must be consistent with the actual choice of methodology originally made by the United States for calculating its domestic support reduction commitments as well as its yearly current AMS notifications. Indeed, the United States' entire argument in paragraphs 114-117 of its Rebuttal Submission is based on the alleged obligation for Brazil "to be consistent."17 As demonstrated below, it is Brazil's AMS calculation, not that of the United States, that is "consistent."
12. Members are required to notify annually their current total AMS to provide other Members the opportunity to review the consistency with their domestic support reduction commitments pursuant to Article 6.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture.18 The total AMS reduction commitments were negotiated during the Uruguay Round based on a calculation of "total AMS" provided in marketing years 1986-1988. The initial AMS calculation used for the purposes of the reduction commitments was performed pursuant to Annex 3 of the Agreement on Agriculture with Members choosing either budgetary expenditures or a "price-gap" methodology expressed in total monetary terms. Like Article 13(b)(ii), the comparison between current total AMS and the AMS ceiling, i.e.,
14 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 97. 15 The United States even claims credit for being conservative by not netting the negative support by the marketing loan benefits against the positive support provided by the other domestic support programmes, Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 116 and note 148. 16 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 114. 17 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para 114 (last sentence). 18 See Article 18.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture and various US notifications cited herein.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-24
the reduction commitment, must allow for an "apples to apples" annual comparison in accounting for the same measures. It follows that once a Member uses a budgetary approach for one measure to establish the AMS ceiling, it cannot use a price gap approach for that same measure in calculating total current AMS. Instead, a Member is required to report current total AMS consistently with the choice it made for that particular type of support in its original total AMS calculation.
13. This interpretation of Annex 3 and Article 6.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture is consistent with its context and object and purpose. Opting for a methodology that would permit Members to change their original methodology (i.e., from budgetary to price-gap) could sanction what the United States proposes ­ the covering up of billions of dollars of marketing loan payments (originally calculated on a budgetary basis) and turns them into "negative support" by using a "price-gap" formula. This would be inconsistent with the entire reason for the reduction commitments of Article 6 of the Agreement on Agriculture.
14. Brazil's calculation of AMS for, inter alia, marketing loan payments followed the actual decision of the United States during the Uruguay Round19 as reflected in its notifications.20 During the Uruguay Round, the United States calculated the upland cotton portion of what would eventually become its domestic support reduction commitment by using the following methodologies: it used the price gap formula for upland cotton deficiency payments21 and used budgetary outlays for all other domestic support measures.22 In its MY 1995 notification to the Committee on Agriculture the United States similarly notified deficiency payments using the price-gap formula and using budgetary outlays for all other domestic support measures subject to reduction commitments23 consistent with its AMS calculation during the Uruguay Round. After the termination of the deficiency payment programme in 1996, all later domestic support (current total AMS) notifications of the United States for upland cotton only use budgetary outlays. Thus, Brazil's approach to calculating upland cotton AMS for MY 1992 and 1999-2002 is entirely consistent with the US approach as evidenced in its domestic support notifications24 and with the US obligations under the Agreement on Agriculture.
15. The United States accounted for the marketing loan payments in the same manner as in its notifications when it answered Question 67 in its 11 August submission.25 This is, furthermore, the methodology the Panel indicated the United States should use ­ referring to the US notification of MY 1999 domestic support in G/AG/N/USA/43, in which the United States ­ in line with its obligation ­ used budgetary outlays.26
16. In sum, like many other US arguments in this phase of the dispute, this US argument is designed to cover-up expenditures and support to upland cotton that increased significantly since the US Uruguay Round commitments came into effect. Therefore, the Panel should reject it.
19 Exhibit Bra-191 (G/AG/AGST/USA, p. 20) 20 Exhibit Bra-150 (G/AG/N/USA/10, p. 18) 21 Exhibit Bra-191 (G/AG/AGST/USA, p. 20 and supporting tables on p. 21-22). 22 Exhibit Bra-191 (G/AG/AGST/USA, p. 20). 23 Exhibit Bra-150 (G/AG/N/USA/10, p. 18). 24 The United States entire argument in paragraphs 114-117 is premised on the alleged need for Brazil "to be consistent" as stated in the last sentence in paragraph 114. As noted, it is Brazil who has been consistent in using actual US notifications and the US calculation method during the Uruguay Round, not the United States who now seeks to ignore them. 25 US 11 August Answer to Question 67, para. 128-134. 26 Exhibit Bra-47 (G/AG/N/USA/43, p. 20).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-25
Paragraphs 124-127 and Exhibit US-24
17. The United States presents an additional critique of Professor Sumner's analysis in Exhibit US-24 prepared by Dr. Joseph W. Glauber, the Deputy Chief Economists of USDA, as well as in paragraphs 124-127 of its Rebuttal Submission.
Marketing Loan Benefits
18. Dr. Glauber notes that the analysis of Professor Sumner did not include in the upland cotton acres eligible for marketing loans 447,164 acres of upland cotton planted on Flex acres from other programme crops.27 Dr. Glauber is correct that any such acreage would be eligible for receiving marketing loan payments and therefore should be included in the calculation.28 Dr. Glauber refers to "Acreage Reduction compliance reports" as his source of this number. Dr. Glauber does not provide a citation for these compliance reports and the United States has not made them available to Brazil. Therefore, Brazil cannot confirm the actual number of acres. Brazil also notes that the number listed is planted acres not harvested acres.29
19. Dr. Glauber further rests his finding that 100 per cent of US upland cotton production in MY 1992 benefited from marketing loan payments on his statement that upland cotton farmers "often" report land that had been planted and abandoned as land left idle and therefore never planted. No citation, authority or reference is provided for this assertion. The assumption in this assertion is that farmers report one thing to the US Federal Government, yet actually do something else. Thus, Dr. Glauber's presumption appears to be that farmers engage in what would appear to be widespread misrepresentation. Brazil does not know if such assumed large-scale misrepresentations were legal under the 1992 US programme, but it certainly contradicts "programme" expectations.
20. Professor Sumner concluded that 1.99 million acres used to produce upland cotton in MY 1992 were not eligible for the marketing loan payments because they did not participate in the deficiency programme. Dr. Glauber confirms Professor Sumner's general approach on nonparticipating acreage in footnote 1 on page 2 where he acknowledges that "some base building occurred during the early 1990's." What this means is that a substantial amount of upland cotton must have been planted outside the programme to accommodate expansion of upland cotton base by 200,000 acres in 1993, as identified by Dr. Glauber. This acknowledgement supports Professor Sumner's analysis that a significant amount of upland cotton must have been grown outside the deficiency programme. The basis for this analysis is as follows:
21. Under the rules existing in MY 1992, in order to "build" base a farm was required to plant all of its upland cotton outside the programme.30 The expansion of upland cotton base is equal to one-
27 Exhibit US-24, p. 1. 28 Neither Brazil nor Professor Sumner were aware of any flex acres from other programme crops planted to upland cotton or of data concerning any such plantings. 29 Dr. Glauber raises in the first sentence of paragraph 2 what he called "statistical problems in comparing planted acres to programme acres." He points out that "planted acres" information was collected and reported by NASS, while "programme acres" are reported by the Farm Service Agency. (In 1992 this part of USDA was known as the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service.) Dr. Glauber goes on to explain that a significant amount of cotton acreage is planted and abandoned each year. But the relevance of this information in critiquing Professor Sumner's analysis remains unclear. Brazil notes that contrary to Dr. Glauber's assumption, Professor Sumner's calculations do not rely on data published by NASS, but instead on published information in the Farm Service Agency's "Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton" (Exhibit Bra-4). This Farm Service Agency source provides data on planted acres, the abandonment rate as well as harvested acres of upland cotton for MY 1992. 30 Exhibit US-3 (7 CFR 1413.7(c)). ("[T]he crop acreage base shall be equal to the average of the acreage planted and considered planted to such crop for harvest on the farm in each of the 3 crop years

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-26
third of the amount of additional cotton acres planted in each of the previous three years. An acre of base is added if an additional acre of cotton is planted for three consecutive years.31 In order to plant more than the current base, a farm was required to leave the programme altogether so that current base acres would also be planted outside the programme. For example, assume a farm had 1000 acres of upland cotton base and wanted to add ­ over the two-year period 1991-1992 ­ 200 acres of base by 1993. That farm would withdraw from the programme for those two years and plant 1300 acres of cotton (300 acres more than the previous base) in 1991 and 1992. The 1993 upland cotton base would than be calculated as follows: (1000 acres + 1300 acres + 1300 acres) / 3 equalling 1200 acres, thus 200 acres more than previously. Therefore, to add the 200,000 acres of base in 1993 (which Dr. Glauber stated were actually added) a much larger amount of upland cotton would have been required to be planted outside the programme in 1992. In addition to building of additional base, farmers planted upland cotton outside the programme because they did not comply with payment limit rules and for some more idiosyncratic reasons.
22. In summary, the evidence of an expanding base is consistent with the assessment of Professor Sumner that a substantial amount of acreage was planted to upland cotton outside the programme. This evidence is not consistent with Dr. Glauber's undocumented or unsubstantiated claim that all upland cotton harvested was eligible for marketing loans.
23. To summarize, if the Panel were to accept the undocumented assertion by Dr. Glauber that 447,164 acres of cotton were planted on flex acres from other programme crop base acreage, then there would be 1.54 million acres (1.99 million acres ­ 0.45 million acres) that were planted to upland cotton but were not eligible for marketing loan payments. This 1.54 million represents 12 per cent of planted acreage.32 Thus, adjusting 52.35 cents per pound by 0.88 results in a support from the marketing loan programme of 46.1 cents per pound. This is an increase of 1.76 cents over the marketing loan level of support set forth in Appendix Table 1 to Professor Sumner's 22 July 2003 Statement.
Deficiency Payments
24. Brazil has already rebutted the US argument that it is inappropriate to adjust the support provided by the deficiency payment programme by non-participation and the resulting non-eligibility to receive payments.33
25. The various "decisions" in MY 1992 with respect to the deficiency payment programme were calculated to establish rules that encouraged some producers to forego eligibility of the programme. Furthermore, the record establishes that US policy makers had relatively precise prior knowledge of how many acres would remain out of the programme based on their policy choices on required land idling and loan rates.34
26. Dr. Glauber criticizes Professor Sumner for relying on a programme yield of 531 pounds per acre to calculate the ratio of payment yield to expected yield and states that the true programme yield
preceding such crop year"). For a farmer within the programme the acreage could never change, as all the acreage was planted (or if idled or ­ in case of flex acreage ­ if planted to other crop, it was "considered" planted to upland cotton). Thus, an increase of acreage could only take place, if a farmer withdrew from the programme and exceeded the planting limits imposed by the programme. Thus, MY 1992 base acreage is constitutes the 3-year average of acreage planted and considered planted in MY 1989-1991.
31 Or of 3 additional acres are planted in the previous year, among other possible constellations. 32 Compare Annex 2 to Exhibit Bra-105, p. 3. 33 Brazil's 22 August Comment on Question 66, para. 81. 34 Brazil's 22 August Comment on Question 66, para. 81.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-27
in MY 1992 was 602 pounds per acre.35 Dr. Glauber references a USDA press release that is not available to those outside the US government as his source of the payment yield information.36 Assuming that the figure of 602 pounds per acre used by Dr. Glauber is correct, he incorrectly continues to rely on Professor Sumner's calculation of the expected yield by stating that the "expected yield based on an average of the upland cotton yields over the five preceding crop years is 601 pounds per acre." Professor Sumner estimated the payment yield based on actual yields per planted acre, whereas the payment yields that Dr. Glauber cites appears to be the approximate average yields per harvested acre. To achieve an apples-to-apples comparison, Brazil has re-calculated the expected yield for MY 1992 as the average yield per harvested acre during the 1990 to 1994 based on USDA's "Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton" (656.4 pounds per acre).37 Thus, the relevant adjustment factor is not 1.002 as suggested by Dr. Glauber, but 0.917 (603 / 656.4).
27. Dr. Glauber offers no critique of Professor Sumner's analysis of the mandatory land idling cost component in the calculation of deficiency payment support. However, Dr. Glauber neglected to include these costs associated with the participation in the programme. As Professor Sumner explained, such costs are properly subtracted from the gross benefits of the cotton deficiency payment programme.
28. Brazil provides a revised calculation below, taking account of the revised yield adjustment factor of 0.917 ­ reflecting the deficiency payment yield as provided by Dr. Glauber's and the expected comparable yield for MY 1992 that Dr. Glauber erroneously did not correct. In addition, Brazil continues to deduct the cost figure calculated by Professor Sumner from the deficiency payment programme. The revised formula is as follows:
Deficiency payment support = 20.55 cents per pound * 0.75 * 0.917 ­ 0.84 cents per pound = 13.29 cents per pound
Using the new payment yield and the new expected yield that is comparable to it, results in a 0.04 cents per pound upward adjustment to the 13.25 cents per pound presented by Professor Sumner in his 22 July Statement.
Other Payments
29. Brazil has already responded at length to Dr. Glauber's claims endorsing the arguments of the United States that PFC, market loss assistance, direct and CCP payments, as well as crop insurance payments are not "support to" upland cotton. Dr. Glauber's statement simply restates assertions in the legal briefs of the United States and offers no economic analysis to support his assertions.
30. Dr. Glauber asserts that it is relevant that Step 2 payments are not paid directly to producers.38 As Brazil explains in its 11 August Answer to Question 18, a basic principle is that the effect of a subsidy is independent of who initially receives the subsidy.39 That is the economic common sense behind the United States notifying Step 2 payments as product-specific support to upland cotton. And it is the basis for including such payments as "support to a specific commodity" "decided" by a
35 Exhibit US-24, p. 3. 36 The United States has not made this document available and thus we are unable to evaluate its applicability to the current situation. Professor Sumner had relied on the best information available to him and Brazil, which was the average upland cotton yield per planted acre during the reference period of MY 19811985. 37 Exhibit Bra-4 ("Fact Sheet: Upland Cotton," USDA, January 2003, p. 4). 38 Exhibit US-24, p. 3. 39 Exhibit Bra-140 (Pindyck, Robert S. and Rubinfeld, Daniel L. , Microeconomics, 5th edition (2002), Prentice Hall, New Jersey, p. 313-317).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-28
Member with respect to MY 1992. The text of Article 13(b)(ii) requires, under any methodology, the calculation of a level of support to upland cotton, not to producers of upland cotton.
31. Dr. Glauber's assertions about "double counting" are also incorrect. All the support programmes Dr. Glauber discusses (marketing loan payments, CCP payments and deficiency payments) have production and trade effects largely independent of Step 2 payments. But the purpose of calculating a rate of support under Article 13(b)(ii) is not to assess the amount of production, export, and price effects of the simultaneous application of all measures of support. Brazil will present an equilibrium analysis of the full economic effects of these support programmes simultaneously for Brazil's "Further Submission." Such an analysis is, however, not required for the purposes of calculating the rate of support under Article 13(b)(ii). The fact that the United States notified Step 2 as "product-specific" support indicates its position that the Step 2 programme provides additional support to upland cotton. This has certainly been the strongly held view of the US National Cotton Council.40 Thus, it was appropriate for Professor Sumner to include this production and tradedistorting subsidy in the total rate of support.
32. Brazil notes that Dr. Glauber does not criticize any other calculation made by Professor Sumner. For the convenience of the Panel, Brazil reproduces the chart containing Professor Sumner's calculation as amended following the detailed US critique of Professor Sumner's methodology. As the Panel will note, the results do not materially change. The support granted by the United States in MY 1999-2002 exceeds the support decided in MY 1992. Thus, even under this methodology, the United States does not enjoy peace clause exemption from actions based on Articles 5 and 6 of the SCM Agreement or Article XVI:1 of GATT 1994.

Year

1992

1999

2000

2001

(Cents per pound)

2002

1. Marketing Loan 2. Deficiency Payments 3. Step 2 4. Crop Insurance 5. PFC Payments 6. Market Loss 7. Direct Payments 8. CCP Payments 9. Cottonseed Payments 10. Total Support

46.10 13.29 2.46 0.36
na na na na 0.00 62.21

50.36 na 2.46 2.00 6.13 6.10 na na 0.97
68.03

50.36 na 2.46 2.00 5.70 6.07 na na 2.27
68.87

50.36 na 2.46 2.62 4.65 6.42 na na 0.00
66.51

52.00 na 3.71 2.62 na na 5.31
10.65 0.61 74.91

Paragraphs 135-146, and Exhibits US-25 through US-29

33. Brazil has demonstrated that under the ordinary meaning of Article 10.2 of the Agreement on
Agriculture, in its context and according to the object and purpose of Article 10 and the Agreement on
Agriculture overall, export credit guarantees are subject to the general export subsidy disciplines contained in that Agreement.41 Article 10.2 announces Members' intent to work toward negotiations

40 Brazil Rebuttal Submission, para. 127. 41 See Brazil Statement at the First Panel Meeting, paras. 100-115; Brazil 11 August Responses to
Panel Questions 70 (para. 138); Brazil 22 August Rebuttal Submission, paras. 99-100; Brazil 22 August
Comments on Answers to Panel Questions 74 (paras. 89-90), 80 (para. 98), 88(b) (paras. 117-119).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-29
on specific disciplines for export credits. In the meantime, the general disciplines on export subsidies included in the Agreement on Agriculture apply to export credits, if those export credits constitute export subsidies.42
34. The United States asserts that Article 10.2 carves out export credit guarantees from the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture, including the anti-circumvention provisions of Article 10.1. The Appellate Body has, however, concluded that to exempt or carve-out particular categories of measures from general obligations such as the export subsidy obligations in the Agreement on Agriculture, the exemption or carve-out must be explicit in the text of an agreement.43 Article 10.2 includes no such explicit carve-out or exemption. The negotiators knew how to make such an exemption or carve-out explicit, as evidenced by, for example, Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, footnote 15 to Article 6.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, and the second paragraph of item (k) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies.44
35. In support of its interpretation, the United States appeals to "subsequent practice in the application of the treaty which establishes the agreement of the parties regarding its interpretation," within the meaning of Article 31(3)(b) of the Vienna Convention.45 According to the United States, negotiations on agricultural export credit issues that have taken place in the OECD subsequent to the effective date of the WTO Agreement, and a statement by the OECD Secretariat, constitute "subsequent practice" establishing the agreement of WTO Members that Article 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture exempts export credits from any and all disciplines.
36. The United States is wrong. The United States has not established "a `concordant, common and consistent' sequence of acts or pronouncements which is sufficient to establish a discernible pattern implying the agreement of the parties [to a treaty] regarding its interpretation," which is the standard adopted by the Appellate Body to establish "subsequent practice" under Article 31(3)(b) of the Vienna Convention.46 It is evident from the positions taken by Canada, the European Communities and New Zealand in this dispute that not even those WTO Members that participated in the OECD negotiations agree with the United States' interpretation of Article 10.2.47 Nor is there any evidence of "subsequent practice" signifying agreement on the United States' interpretation amongst the 136 WTO Members that did not participate in the OECD negotiations.
37. Brazil notes, moreover, that the WTO Secretariat, which is in a better position to address interpretations of the covered agreements than is the OECD Secretariat, does not appear to agree that

42 Export credit guarantees are not per se subject to these disciplines, as they would be if they were

included in Article 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture (See e.g.: Brazil's 22 August Comment, para. 97,

New Zealand's Answer to Third Party Question 35, EC's Answers to Third Party Questions 35, para. 70).

Brazil has demonstrated that the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes constitute export subsidies under

Articles 1(e) and 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture, under Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement,

and under item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies annexed to the SCM Agreement. 43 Appellate Body Report, EC ­ Sardines, WT/DS231/AB/R, para. 201-208; Appellate Body Report,

EC ­ Hormones, WT/DS26/AB/R, para. 128. See discussion at paragraphs 107-108 of the Oral Statement of

Brazil.

44 Oral Statement of Brazil, paras. 105-106. 45 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 135. 46 Appellate Body Report, Chile ­ Agricultural Products (Price Band), WT/DS207/AB/R, para. 213;

Appellate Body Report, Japan ­ Alcoholic Beverages, WT/DS8/AB/R, WT/DS10/AB/R, WT/DS11/AB/R,

p. 107. 47 See Third Party Submission of Canada (paras. 51-54); Third Party Submission of the

European Communities (paras. 28-31); Third Party Submission of New Zealand (paras. 3.13-3.16).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-30
agricultural export credits are exempt from the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture by virtue of Article 10.2.48
38. The United States also argues that the negotiating history of Articles 9.1 and 10.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture supports its argument that export credit guarantees are exempt from the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture. The United States raises three arguments in this regard.
39. First, the United States addresses the negotiating history of Article 9.1.49
40. In the DeZeeuw framework agreement, the United States points to paragraph 20(e), which contemplated Members providing "data on financial outlays or revenue foregone . . . in respect of export credits provided by governments or their agencies on less than fully commercial terms."50 The United States apparently considers that since paragraph 20(e) was not carried over into the Agreement on Agriculture, export credits are not subject to the export subsidy disciplines in the Agreement.
41. Brazil notes, however, that paragraph 20(g) addressed "export performance-related taxation concessions or incentives." This provision was also not carried over into the Agreement on Agriculture. Nonetheless, panels and the Appellate Body have ruled that export performance-related taxation concessions or incentives like the United States' FSC and ETI measures are subject to the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture, including Article 10.1.
42. Similarly, the United States points to Addendum 10 of Chairman Dunkel's Note on Options, which includes an illustrative list of export subsidy practices.51 A number of the items on that illustrative list were eventually included, with modifications, in Article 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture.52 Others were not, including item (h), which refers to "[e]xport credits provided by governments or their agencies on less than fully commercial terms," and item (i), which refers to "[s]ubsidized export credit guarantees or insurance programmes." The United States apparently considers that since items (h) and (i) were not carried over into the Agreement on Agriculture, export credits, including export credit guarantees and insurance programmes, are not subject to the export subsidy disciplines in the Agreement.
43. Brazil notes, however, that item (g) of Chairman Dunkel's illustrative list refers to "[e]xport performance-related taxation concessions or incentives other than the remission of indirect taxes." This provision was also not carried over in Article 9.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture. Nonetheless, as Brazil has already noted, panels and the Appellate Body have ruled that export performance-related taxation concessions or incentives like the United States' FSC and ETI measures are subject to the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture, including Article 10.1.
44. Brazil assumes that the United States simply overlooked paragraph 20(g) of the DeZeeuw framework agreement and item (g) from Chairman Dunkel's illustrative list when it states, in paragraph 143 of its Rebuttal Submission, that
48 G/AG/NG/S/13 (26 June 2000), para. 44 ("[A]s matters currently stand the only rules and disciplines on agricultural export credits are those of the Agreement on Agriculture but only to the extent that such measures constitute export subsidies for the purposes of the Agreement on Agriculture.").
49 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, paras. 136-138. 50 See Exhibit US-25. 51 Exhibit US-27. 52 Paragraph 48(a) corresponds to Article 9.1(a), paragraph 48(e) to Article 9.1(e), paragraph 48(f) to Article 9.1(d), paragraph 48(j) to Article 9.1(f), paragraph 48(k) to Article 9.1(c).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-31
the negotiating history reveals that the Members very early specifically included export credits and export credit guarantees as a subject for negotiation and specifically elected not to include such practices among export subsidies. In contrast, the negotiating history reveals no comparable discussion involving FSC.
45. In light of these facts, it is evident that the negotiating history of Article 9.1 does not offer support for the United States' argument that export credit guarantees are exempt from the general export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture.
46. Second, the United States argues that changes introduced to the text of Article 10.2 between the Draft Final Act and the final version of the Agreement on Agriculture mean that export credits are not subject to the export subsidy disciplines included in the Agreement.53
47. The version of Article 10.2 included by negotiators in the Draft Final Act read as follows:
Participants undertake not to provide export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes otherwise than in conformity with internationally agreed disciplines.
The United States argues that this version of Article 10.2 "would clearly prohibit the use of export credit guarantees except in conformity with [internationally] agreed disciplines," which it asserts "would include those contemplated by the SCM Agreement."54
48. The version of Article 10.2 included in the Agreement on Agriculture reads as follows:
Members undertake to work toward the development of internationally agreed disciplines to govern the provision of export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes and, after agreement on such disciplines, to provide export credits, export credit guarantees or insurance programmes only in conformity therewith.
The United States argues that having changed the draft, "[t]he Members clearly subsequently decided not to condition the use of export credit guarantees on conformity with the export subsidy disciplines of the Agreement on Agriculture or the SCM Agreement."55
49. The United States' interpretation of the negotiating history requires the Panel to accept that the version of Article 10.2 included in the Draft Final Act would have imposed a greater burden on Members than does the version of Article 10.2 ultimately included in the Agreement on Agriculture. In fact, however, Article 10.2 of the Draft Final Act was amended to make it clear that negotiators expected Members actually to pursue negotiations on specific disciplines. Whereas the version of Article 10.2 included in the Draft Final Act did not include an undertaking to pursue those negotiations, the final version of Article 10.2 does include such an undertaking. The amendment did not relieve the Members of any burden, but instead increased the burden.
50. At least some Members understood this to be the case, since soon after the conclusion of the Uruguay Round, they launched negotiations in the OECD on specific export credit disciplines.56 The
53 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, paras. 140-142. 54 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 140. 55 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 141. 56 The United States' assertion that the phrase "internationally agreed disciplines" in Article 10.2 of the Draft Final Act referred to those disciplines "contemplated by the SCM Agreement of the Draft Final Act" is not credible. Where negotiators meant to refer to pending WTO agreements outside of the draft Agreement on

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-32
United States implies that Brazil's "admission" that those negotiations have not yet resulted in agreement on specific disciplines for export credits is fatal to its claims. Brazil has demonstrated elsewhere, however, that while those negotiations are pending, nothing in Article 10.2 (or Article 1(e)) exempts export credits from the general disciplines on export subsidies included in, for example, Article 10.1 of the Agreement on Agriculture. If export credits constitute export subsidies, they are subject to those disciplines. As noted above, the Appellate Body has concluded that to exempt particular categories of measures from general obligations such as Article 10.1, the exemption must be explicit.57 The negotiators knew how to make exemptions explicit, but did not do so in the case of export credits.58
51. Third, the United States argues that "Brazil's interpretation would require export credit guarantees in agriculture to be subject to more disciplines than any other practice addressed in the Agreement on Agriculture," since "not only would export credit guarantees constitute export subsidies and be subject to all of the export subsidy disciplines, but Member's [sic] would also be specifically obligated to work toward and then apply additional disciplines."59 This statement is incorrect for several reasons:
 As clarified by Brazil, New Zealand and the European Communities, since export credits are not included in Article 9.1, they do not necessarily "constitute export subsidies."60 They only constitute export subsidies if they are financial contributions that confer benefits and are contingent on export, or if they satisfy the elements of one of the items on the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies annexed to the SCM Agreement.
 Export credits are only "subject to all of the export subsidy disciplines" of the Agreement on Agriculture if they lead to circumvention of a Member's export subsidy reduction commitments.
 It is not clear that any specific disciplines resulting from negotiations undertaken pursuant to Article 10.2 will be "additional" to those already included in the Agreement on Agriculture or the SCM Agreement. Those negotiations are not yet completed. Depending on the agreement negotiated, it is presumably possible that the resulting text could replace the disciplines included in the Agreement on Agriculture.
52. Therefore, the United States' argument is inaccurate, and does not support its assertion that export credit guarantees are exempt from the general export subsidy disciplines in the Agreement on Agriculture, even if they meet the definition of "export subsidy."
Agriculture, they cited those WTO agreements by name. For example, Article 5.8 of the Draft Final Act (regarding special agricultural safeguards) refers specifically to the GATT and the Safeguards Agreement. Similarly, the final version of Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture includes numerous specific citations to the SCM Agreement.
57 Appellate Body Report, EC ­ Sardines, WT/DS231/AB/R, para. 201-208; Appellate Body Report, EC ­ Hormones, WT/DS26/AB/R, para. 128. See discussion at paragraphs 107-108 of the Oral Statement of Brazil.
58 See, e.g., Article 13 of the Agreement on Agriculture, footnote 15 to Article 6.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, and the second paragraph of item (k) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies.
59 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 142. 60 See e.g.: Brazil's 22 August Comment, para. 97, New Zealand's Answer to Third Party Question 35, EC's Answers to Third Party Questions 35, para. 70.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-33
Paragraphs 147-152
53. The United States argues that it did not include the quantities exported under the CCC programmes in its calculation of average export subsidies during 1986-1990 (the base period from which export subsidy reduction commitments were calculated during the Uruguay Round)61 because it did not consider that CCC export credit guarantees are export subsidies subject to reduction commitments.62 According to the United States, subjecting export credit guarantee programmes to export subsidy reduction commitments in the Agreement on Agriculture would therefore lead to "gross injustice."63
54. This is not the logical conclusion to be drawn, however. It appears that during the Uruguay Round negotiations the United States took the same position as it has taken in this dispute ­ that CCC export credit guarantee programmes do not constitute export subsidies within the meaning of item (j) and Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement and that CCC export credit guarantees are, therefore, not subject to the general export subsidy disciplines included in the Agreement on Agriculture.64 The United States did not feel compelled to include the CCC export credit guarantees in its calculation of export subsidy reduction commitments because it did not consider that they constituted export subsidies under those provisions. Brazil agrees that not all export credit guarantees are export subsidies and that, therefore, not all export credit guarantees are subject to export subsidy reduction commitments. However, if those guarantees meet the criteria of item (j) or constitute subsidies contingent upon export performance under Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement, they are export subsidies.65 (Brazil has demonstrated that the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes are export subsidies. It follows that GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP are subject to reduction commitments and, in fact, circumvent or threaten to circumvent the US export subsidy commitments.)
Paragraphs 156-157, 160-162 and Exhibits US-31 and US-32
55. The United States argues that it would not give an accurate picture to compare the reestimates made in any given year (and recorded in the US budget) with the cohort-specific subsidy estimates for guarantees disbursed in that year. Specifically, the United States argues that "upward reestimates and downward reestimates reflected in a single budget cannot necessarily be applied against each other for a notional `net reestimate.'"66 Brazil has never argued otherwise. In the chart included in paragraph 115 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission, Brazil compares cohort-specific original subsidy estimates to cohort-specific reestimates, cumulated over the period 1992-2002, to give a picture of the longterm operating costs and losses of the "programmes," as required by item (j) (rather than costs and losses for a particular cohort). The United States itself uses this same method (albeit with different data) in paragraph 161 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission.
56. With respect to FCRA-related data, it would in fact only be inappropriate to attempt to tie a cohort-specific subsidy estimate for one year to fiscal year, non-cohort-specific reestimates recorded in the budget for any one year. Brazil has never made this comparison. As the United States notes,
61 Rebuttal Submission of the Untied States, para. 148. 62 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 149. 63 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, paras. 147-153, see the heading to that section. 64 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 151. The arguments of the United States in this case demonstrate that it continues to be of the view that its programmes do not constitute export subsidies within the meaning of Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a), including item (j) of the SCM Agreement, nor within the meaning of Articles 1(e), 10.1 and 8 of the Agreement on Agriculture. 65 Brazil's 22 August Comment on Question 80, para. 98. See also EC's 11 August Answer to Third Party Question 30, para. 65. New Zealand's 11 August Answer to Third Party Question 35. 66 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 160.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-34
this would be inappropriate because reestimates recorded in the budget as made in a year do not necessarily relate to subsidy estimates for guarantees disbursed in that year. If the data is presented cumulatively over a period constituting the long term, however, and does not purport to tie cohortspecific subsidy estimates to fiscal year, non-cohort-specific reestimates recorded in the budget for any one year, a comparison is perfectly acceptable. Specifically, comparing the cumulative subsidy estimates to the cumulative reestimates shows whether the "programme" is loss-making or profitgenerating over the long term. Making a comparison of the cumulative figures does not require that the estimates and reestimates recorded in the budget for any year correspond.
57. For example, this approach can be applied to the data included in Exhibit US-31 to the United States' 22 August Rebuttal Submission. The "subsidy" column included in Exhibit US-31 lists the subsidy estimate from the "prior year" column of the US budget for each cohort during the period 1992-2003. Subtracting cumulative annual downward reestimates from and adding cumulative annual upward reestimates to the cumulative original subsidy amount yields a positive subsidy of $500 million.67 Adding administrative expenses over the period 1992-2003 increases this amount by a further $43 million.68 Taking the data provided by the United States in Exhibit US-31 at face value demonstrates that the CCC guarantee programmes are losing money. This result is not tainted by the "apples-to-oranges" criticism levied in paragraph 160 of the United States' 22 August Rebuttal Submission.
58. Nor does Brazil's treatment of the data included in the chart at paragraph 165 of its 11 August Answers to Questions suffer from an "apples-to-oranges comparison" between fiscal year and cohortspecific data, as the United States alleges at paragraph 160 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission. The chart at paragraph 165 is wholly unrelated to the FCRA cost formula. It tracks the results of a formula Brazil has constructed to verify, by alternative means, that long-term operating costs and losses for the CCC export guarantee programmes outpace premiums collected. The data in that chart are not FCRA-related subsidy estimates that are recorded on a cohort basis or that are subject to reestimates mandated by the FCRA. Instead, the left-hand column of that chart records revenue collected on a fiscal year (not a cohort-specific) basis, and the right-hand column of that chart records costs incurred on a fiscal year (not a cohort-specific) basis. Over the period 1993-2002, total revenue in the left-hand column is significantly less than total costs in the right-hand column. This entails no "apples-to-oranges comparison," and demonstrates that the CCC export guarantee programmes constitute export subsidies under item (j) of the Illustrative List of Export Subsidies.
59. In the chart included at paragraph 161 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission, the United States nets cumulative reestimates on a cohort basis against the original, cohort-specific subsidy estimate from the US budget. There are some factual problems with the US data.69
67 (2,737 ­ 297) ­ (2,629 + 870) + (1,262 + 297) = 500. Since no reestimates have yet been made for 2004, Brazil has reduced the original subsidy amount included in Exhibit US-31 by the $297 million estimate included in the 2004 budget. Had the United States subtracted downward reestimates from and added upward reestimates to the original subsidy estimate included in the "budget year" column of the "guaranteed loan subsidy" line of the annual US budget, it would have yielded a positive subsidy, and thus a loss, of $2.038 billion. See Exhibit Bra-192.
68 See paragraph 132 of Brazil's 22 July Statement at the First Panel Meeting, and accompanying citations.
69 First, the United States has offered no documentation verifying the accuracy of the reestimate figures provided in the chart for the period 1993-2000. In contrast, the chart included in paragraph 115 of Brazil's 22 August Rebuttal Submission provides cumulative reestimates on a cohort basis that are taken directly from Table 8 of the Federal Credit Supplement included with the 2004 US budget. See Exhibit Bra-182. Second, although the United States asserts that it has netted cumulative reestimates against the "original subsidy estimate," it has in fact netted cumulative reestimates against the "guaranteed loan subsidy" figure included in the "prior year" column of the US budget, which yields a lower number. Using, subsidy data from the US budget for "prior year," the chart included at paragraph 115 of Brazil's 22 August Rebuttal Submission would

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-35
Resolving these problems is not particularly important, however, since the chart included at paragraph 161 of the United States' 22 August Rebuttal Submission itself shows a cumulative positive subsidy for the programmes of over $381 million for the period 1992-2002.70 This positive subsidy is consistent with CCC's 2002 financial statements, which provide a cumulative, running tally of the subsidy figure for all post-1991 CCC export credit guarantees in the amount of $411 million.71 The CCC export guarantee programmes have lost money over the period 1992-2002.
60. The United States' point seems to be that because subsidy reestimates are generally downward, the CCC programmes generate profits over the long term. However, all this means is that CCC's original estimates were too high.72 The real test is the result when cohort-specific reestimates are netted against the original subsidy estimates for each cohort and cumulated over a period constituting the long term, so that the long-term costs and losses of the programmes can be determined, as required by item (j). Netting reestimates against original subsidy estimates on a cohort-specific basis yields a positive subsidy, revealing that over the long term, the CCC is losing money with its export guarantee programmes. This result is obtained whether the Panel accepts the chart at paragraph 161 of the United States' 22 August Rebuttal Submission, the chart at paragraph 115 of Brazil's 22 August Rebuttal Submission,73 or the cumulative subsidy figure included in CCC's 2002 financial statements.74
61. The United States may be suggesting that reestimates will always, eventually, result in negative subsidies and profits. The data shows that this is not the case, however. Netting reestimates against original subsidy estimates does not consistently yield a negative subsidy, or profits, on a cohort basis. The charts included at paragraph 161 of the United States' 22 August Rebuttal Submission and at paragraph 115 of Brazil's 22 August Rebuttal Submission demonstrate this. Nor is it even relevant to focus on the results of individual cohorts, since item (j) require an analysis of the "long-term" costs and losses of export guarantee "programmes," rather than cohorts. That is why Brazil, and presumably the United States, has calculated cumulative results for the charts included at
still yield a positive subsidy of $211 million, to which the $43 million in administrative expenses should be added, for a total loss of $254 million over the period 1992-2002. See Exhibit Bra-193. Third, the United States has not included administrative expenses for the CCC export guarantee programmes, which amount to $43 million for the period 1992-2003.
70 Even accepting the validity of the data entered in the US chart, Brazil notes that summing up those figures yields a result different from the $381.35 million total provided by the United States. Using the US data, Brazil reaches a subsidy figure net of reestimates of $230,127,023.
71 Exhibit Bra-158 (US Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, Financial and IT Operations, Audit Report, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2002, Audit Report No. 06401-15-FM (December 2002), Notes to the Financial Statements, p. 19).
72 Brazil notes that according to USDA's Inspector General, CCC estimates are in fact understated. In audit reports for fiscal years 1999, 2000 and 2001, CCC's estimates and reestimates were found to have "understated" costs and losses by amounts ranging from to $11 million to $430 million. Exhibit Bra-194 (US Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General Great Plains Region Audit Report, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2001, Audit Report No. 06401-4-KC, February 2002, p. 11); Exhibit Bra-195 (US Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General Financial and IT Operations Audit Report, Audit Report No. 06401-14-FM, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2000, June 2001, p. 9); Exhibit Bra-196 (US Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General Financial and IT Operations Audit Report, US Department of Agriculture Consolidated Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 1999, Report No. 50401-35-FM, February 2000, p. 9).
73 Again, using "prior year" subsidy figures for this chart results in a positive subsidy of $211 million over the period 1992-2002. See Exhibit Bra-193 (Net Lifetime Reestimates of Guaranteed Loan Subsidy by Cohort)
74 Exhibit Bra-158 (US Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, Financial and IT Operations, Audit Report, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2002, Audit Report No. 06401-15-FM (December 2002), Notes to the Financial Statements, p. 19).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-36
paragraph 161 of the United States' 22 August Rebuttal Submission and at paragraph 115 of Brazil's 22 August Rebuttal Submission.
62. In any event, if CCC considered that it would eventually make money on its guarantees on a cohort basis, why does it continue to offer original estimates that are so high? While some factors included in the estimation process are dictated by the FCRA and the US Office of Management and Budget, the original subsidy estimate is primarily driven by CCC's historical experience with its guarantees. Brazil has elsewhere noted that according to the US Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board, the Government-Wide Audited Financial Statements Task Force on Credit Reform, the Office of Management and Budget and the Department of Agriculture itself, "[m]ethods of estimating future cash flows for existing credit programmes need to take account of past experience,"75 "[a]ctual historical experience of the performance of a risk category is a primary factor upon which an estimation of default cost is based,"76 and technical assumptions underlying subsidy calculations reflect "historical cash reports and loan performance."77 If historical experience dictated that CCC would consistently make profits, CCC would reflect that historical experience in its subsidy estimates. Actual historical experience is, after all, a "primary factor" on which those estimates are based. That CCC continues to provide significant positive original subsidy estimates demonstrates that its actual historical experience does not suggest that it will make money on its loan guarantees. Since those estimates are calculated and recorded on a net present value basis, CCC apparently continues to consider that it will incur significant net costs at the time the cohorts are closed.
63. CCC's apparent views regarding its historical experience with the export guarantee programmes are justified. Evidence regarding CCC's actual historical experience confirms that the long-term operating costs and losses for the CCC guarantee programmes outpace premiums collected. At paragraph 109 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission, Brazil summarizes this evidence.78 Although, the United States implies at paragraph 172 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission that Brazil's evidence is all "between 10 and 20 years" old, a cursory review of the evidence, which includes data from the 2004 US budget and CCC's 2002 financial statements proves otherwise. Therefore, even if the Panel agrees with the United States' conclusion, at paragraph 162 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission, that the FCRA cost formula is not an ideal way to determine the costs of the CCC export guarantee programmes, Brazil has established by alternative means that CCC premiums fail to meet the long-term operating costs and losses of the programmes.
75 Exhibit Bra-162 (Government-Wide Audited Financial Statements Task Force on Credit Reform, ISSUE PAPER, Model Credit Programme methods and Documentation for Estimating Subsidy Rates and the Model Information Store, 96-CR-7 (1 May 1996), p. 2).
76 Exhibit Bra-118 (Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board, STATEMENT OF FEDERAL FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NO. 19, Technical Amendments to Accounting Standards for Direct Loans and Loan Guarantees in Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards No. 2 (March 2001), p. 16 (para. 36)). See also Exhibit Bra-160 (US Department of Agriculture, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Credit, Travel, and Accounting Division, Agriculture Financial Standards Manual (May 2003), p. 120 ("In estimating default costs, the following risk factors are considered: (1) loan performance experience; . . .")).
77 Exhibit Bra-163 (Office of Management and Budget Annual Training, Introduction to Federal Credit Budgeting, 24 June 2002, p. 9).
78 Contrary to the United States' assertion at paragraph 170 of its Rebuttal Submission, Brazil has not misread Note 5 to CCC's 2002 financial statements. The amounts in the "subsidy allowance" column are in fact the amounts of receivables associated with post-1991 CCC guarantees that CCC considers uncollectible. The Panel will recall that under the FCRA, the subsidy allowance is recorded on a net present value basis, which means that it represents the cost CCC considers it will incur on a guarantee cohort at the time that cohorts is closed. The $770 million listed in the "subsidy allowance" column in the receivables table for post-1991 guarantees is therefore as uncollectible as the $ 2,567 billion listed in the "uncollectible" column of the pre-1992 CCC guarantee receivables table (See Notes to Financial Statements contained in Exhibit Bra-158 (US Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, Financial and IT Operations, Audit Report, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2002, Audit Report N° 06401-15-FM (December 2002) p. 14).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-37
Paragraph 169 and Exhibit US-33
64. The United States has asserted that there are no "arrearages" with respect to debt reschedulings.79 Brazil has two comments. First, the United States does not state the source of the data it included at Exhibit US-33. Second, Brazil maintains that it is not appropriate to treat rescheduled debt as recoveries.80 The US assumption that there will be no arrearages not only ignores the cost of rescheduling but also the fact that there may be further defaults on rescheduled debt.81 Although rescheduled debt is treated as a receivable, CCC acknowledges in its financial statements that not all receivables are deemed collectible.82 Moreover, Brazil presumes that rescheduled debt is subject to the FCRA estimation or reestimation process, which involves calculations of net present value of what the CCC expects to lose (or gain) on the rescheduled debt. The CCC does not assume that all rescheduled debt will be collected.
Paragraphs 172, 174-175
65. The United States has argued that Brazil improperly relies on CCC losses incurred via Iraqi and Polish defaults. The United States implies that these defaults occurred between 10 and 20 years ago.83 This is incorrect. The US General Accounting Office ("GAO") reports that the losses in Iraq occurred over the period 1990-1997.84 (The United States makes no specific challenge to the $2 billion in Polish defaults.) Thus, defaults and losses did not occur as long ago as the United States suggests.
66. Moreover, the United States argues that the Panel should only look into the question whether "current" premium rates are adequate to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the programmes.85 The United States relies on a "present tense" argument to exclude major defaults in Iraq and Poland that occurred in the recent past. Even if the Panel only looks to "current" premiums, item (j) calls for an analysis of "long-term" operating costs and losses.86 The United States apparently agrees, since it looks to the performance of the CCC programmes in such years as 1994 and 1995 (a time period even longer ago than part of the defaults in Iraq87) to claim that premium rates charged were adequate to meet costs,88
67. If the United States believes that it is only appropriate to look at current premiums, given the present tense of the term "are" in item (j), then the FCRA cost formula is useful. The FCRA cost formula measures the net present value "of the following cash flows: (i) payments by the Government
79 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para 169. 80 Oral Statement of Brazil, para. 122. 81 Oral Statement of Brazil, para. 122. Brazil's 11 August Answer to Question 77, para. 162. 82 See Brazil's 22 August Comments, para. 99. Exhibit Exhibit Bra-158 (US Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, Financial and IT Operations, Audit Report, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2002, Audit Report No. 06401-15-FM (December 2002), Notes to the Financial Statements, p. 14). 83 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 172. 84 Bra-157 (US General Accounting Office, REPORT TO THE CHAIRMAN, TASK FORCE ON URGENT FISCAL ISSUES, COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, International Trade: Iraq's Participation in US Agricultural Export Programmes, GAO/NSIAD-91-76 (November 1990), p. 27 (Table IV.2)). 85 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 174. 86 The United States has elsewhere endorsed a 10-year period (First Submission of the United States, para. 173; Rebuttal Submission of the Untied States, para. 161). 87 Compare Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 172 and 175. 88 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 175.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-38
. . . and (ii) payments to the Government" of guarantees at the time they are disbursed.89 In other words, it measures the amount CCC expects today to lose (or gain) on a guarantee cohort at the time the cohort is closed tomorrow. Even if this involves some estimates, the United States has noted that those estimates are acceptable.90 In fact, the US budget for fiscal year 2004 demonstrates that current premiums paid for guarantees disbursed in fiscal years 2002-2004 will generate losses worth hundreds of million of dollars.91 Thus, current premiums are inadequate to cover the long-term operating costs and losses of the CCC export credit guarantee programmes. These programmes constitute export subsidies.
Paragraphs 186-191 and Exhibits US-34 through US-37
68. Brazil has argued that since CCC export credit guarantees from the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes are unique financial instruments for agricultural commodity transactions that are not available on the commercial market ­ certainly not for terms longer than the marketing cycles of the eligible commodities ­ they confer "benefits" within the meaning of Article 1.1(b) of the SCM Agreement.92 The United States asserts that "financing is available in the marketplace that is analogous to the export credit guarantee programmes" ­ namely, forfaiting.93
69. The United States' assertion should be rejected. As discussed below, the two instruments are not "analogous," and are, in fact, different.
70. Brazil begins with a very rough sketch of the role a forfait can play in a typical transaction involving agricultural commodities. In a typical transaction, an importer will issue a promissory note to an exporter for the agreed price. The exporter will generally demand that the note be backed by a guarantee (or an aval) from the importer's bank and/or, as the United States points out in paragraph 187 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission, by a guarantee from the importer's government export credit agency.
71. A forfait comes into play because, while both the exporter and the importer want the transaction to occur, they have different interests. The exporter wants to get paid immediately on a cash basis, and the importer wants credit that it can repay on a deferred basis. Even with a guarantee from the importer's bank or a government export credit agency, the exporter bears responsibility for collecting the receivables (in the absence of default). A forfaiter (which could be the exporter's own bank) will step in and purchase the promissory note at a discount to face value, without recourse to the exporter.94 The exporter will receive payment immediately from the forfaiter. The forfait essentially enables the exporter to convert a credit sale into a cash sale.
72. A forfaiter will generally demand that the importer's obligation is backed by a guarantee from a bank or the importer's government export credit agency.95 Rather than substituting for a guarantee,
89 Exhibit Bra-117 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)(C)). 90 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 171. 91 See chart at paragraph 161 of the Rebuttal Submission of the United States. See also Exhibit Bra-127 (US budget for FY 2004, p. 107) referencing guaranteed loan subsidy amounts of $97 million, $294 million and $297 million respectively. Brazil notes that the figure for FY 2002 has been reestimated to $137,008,586 since the publication of the FY 2004 budget (See Rebuttal Submission of the United States, chart at para. 161). 92 First Submission Brazil, para. 289; Oral Statement of Brazil, para. 116; Brazil 11 August Comment and Answer to Questions 71(a) (para. 139), 75 (para. 156); Rebuttal Submission of Brazil, para. 103. 93 Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 186. 94 See Exhibit Bra-197 (http://www.nedcor.co.uk/forfait-website/forfaiting.htm). 95 United Rebuttal Submission of the United States, para. 187. See also Exhibit Bra-198 (Vincent Whittaker, "The Quick Buck, International Finance, and Forfaiting," 23 Thomas Jefferson Law Review 249, 258 (Spring 2001) ("In most cases, the forfaiter requires the obligation of the importer to be guaranteed by a bank in the importer's country because of the impossibility of evaluating the credit risk of every importer in

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-39
therefore, guarantees and forfaiting are complementary instruments. For this reason alone, the US assertion that the two instruments are analogous is incorrect.
73. There are other differences between the two instruments. The importer realizes a tangible and extremely valuable benefit from a CCC guarantee; namely, the bank prices financing to the importer based on the credit rating of the United States, rather than the credit rating of the importer itself. Importantly, the CCC guarantee allows the importer to secure financing in the first place. As the regulations for the GSM and SCGP programmes state, the programmes operate in cases where banks "would be unwilling to provide financing without CCC's guarantee."96 Forfaiting helps an exporter accept deferred payment terms for the importer, but does not otherwise beneficially affect the price for the financing secured by the importer. Nor would a bank require that forfaiting be involved in a transaction as a prerequisite for it to provide financing to the importer.
74. As a further distinction between the two instruments, while there is a secondary forfaiting market,97 there is no secondary market for CCC guarantees.98 Purchasers in the secondary market for forfaiting instruments assume that forfaited promissory notes will yield more at maturity than the purchaser paid for them in the secondary market.99 Since no secondary market exists for CCC guarantees, apparently no such assumption can be made with respect to CCC guarantees (which itself reveals much about the quality of those guarantees).
75. Most importantly, the pricing for forfaiting instruments is substantially different than pricing for CCC guarantees. As noted above, a forfaiter purchases an exporter's trade receivables at a discount to face value. The discount rate and associated commitment fees are driven by the risks involved ­ country risk, political risk, currency risk, entity risk (essentially, the risk of the guarantor), etc., and by the length of the underlying credit.100
76. Brazil has attached as Exhibit Bra-199 a list of indicative forfaiting rates that vary greatly from market to market.101 In contrast, the United States has confirmed that country risk "has no impact on the premiums payable" under the GSM 102, GSM 103 and SCGP programmes.102 Brazil provided the Panel with evidence documenting that GSM and SCGP fees were the same whether guarantees were for transactions with the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Japan, South Korea or Vietnam (among others).103
77. Moreover, the very lowest rate in the forfaiting rate list included in Exhibit Bra-199 is 1.6638 per cent (6-month tenor). The rates for GSM 102 and GSM 103 guarantees are prohibited by law from being greater than 1 per cent,104 and are currently (as they have been at least since 1994)105
every country, particularly when medium or small sized companies are involved.")). See also Id., p. 259 ("[I]f a bank guarantee is required, it must be unconditional, irrevocable and freely transferable.").
96 Exhibit Bra-38 (7 CFR 1493.10(a)(2); 7 CFR 1493.400(a)(2)). See Brazil 11 August Response to Question 82(a) (paras. 183-184).
97 Exhibit Bra-198 (Vincent Whittaker, "The Quick Buck, International Finance, and Forfaiting," 23 Thomas Jefferson Law Review 249, 251-252 (Spring 2001)).
98 See US 11 August Answer to Question 86 (para. 184). 99 Exhibit Bra-198 (Vincent Whittaker, "The Quick Buck, International Finance, and Forfaiting," 23 Thomas Jefferson Law Review 249, 251-252 (Spring 2001)). 100 Exhibit Bra-198 (Vincent Whittaker, "The Quick Buck, International Finance, and Forfaiting," 23 Thomas Jefferson Law Review 249, 256 (Spring 2001)). 101 Exhibit Bra-199 (Trade and Forfaiting Review, "Argentina Trade Finance to the Rescue," Volume 6, Issue 9, July/August 2003) 102 United States 11 August Response to Question 86 (para. 184). 103 See Brazil 11 August Comments to Questions 84 (para. 192) and 85 (para. 195). 104 United States 11 August Responses to Question 84 (para. 179). 105 Brazil 11 August Comment to Question 84 (para. 193).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-40

no greater than 0.663 per cent for GSM 102 (36-month tenor)106 and 0.05 per cent for GSM 103 (120month tenor).107

78. Furthermore, although the United States' assertion that the tenor of forfaiting instruments can
range from six months to 10 years is accurate, forfaiting instruments for agricultural commodities will
not exceed tenors of 360 days, or in other words will not exceed a tenor "matching the typical period of consumption of most commodities."108 This is consistent with Brazil's statement that commercial
financing for exports of agricultural goods that exceeds the marketing cycles of the agricultural good is not available on the marketplace.109

79. Under Article 10.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture, the United States bears the burden of
demonstrating that no export subsidies have been granted in respect of quantities of agricultural commodities exported in excess of its reduction commitments.110 Although it is not its burden to do
so, Brazil has demonstrated that CCC export credit guarantees are financial contributions that confer
benefits and are contingent on export, within the meaning of Articles 1.1 and 3.1(a) of the SCM Agreement. With respect to "benefit," CCC regulations concerning the GSM and SCGP programmes demonstrate that the programmes grant better-than-market terms per se.111 Brazil has also
demonstrated that CCC export credit guarantees confer benefits per se since they are unique financial
instruments for agricultural commodity transactions that are not available on the commercial market ­
and certainly not for terms longer than the marketing cycles of the eligible commodities.

80. The United States has not established that forfaiting is analogous to CCC export credit guarantees. Even if it had done so, and the market terms for forfaiting instruments could theoretically serve as a benchmark against which to judge whether CCC export credit guarantees confer "benefits," the United States has not: (i) established the terms on which forfaiting is provided on the market; or, (ii) demonstrated that CCC export credit guarantees do not provide terms better than those provided for forfaiting instruments. The United States acknowledges, at paragraph 191 of its 22 August Rebuttal Submission, that it has not provided market terms for forfaiting instruments that could serve as a benchmark. Thus, the United States has not met its burden under Article 10.3 of the Agreement on Agriculture.

Brazil's Comment on Question 67a posed by Panel to the United States

81. While Brazil obviously does not know how the United States will ultimately respond, Brazil offers the following information supporting Brazil's calculations of the amounts provided to these four crops as "support to upland cotton."

82. First, to the extent that the United States criticizes Brazil's calculations made to determine the
different per acre payments for direct payment and CCP crops in paragraph 42 of its Rebuttal
Submission, Brazil notes that these calculations are confirmed by the Food Agricultural Policy Research Institute at the University of Missouri (FAPRI).112 As Brazil further notes that the FAPRI

106 Exhibit Bra-155 (US Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service, "Notice to GSM-102

and GSM-103 Programme Participants," 24 September 2002). 107 Exhibit Bra-155 (US Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service, "Notice to GSM-102

and GSM-103 Programme Participants," 24 September 2002). 108 Exhibit Bra-198 (Vincent Whittaker, "The Quick Buck, International Finance, and Forfaiting," 23

Thomas Jefferson Law Review 249, 254 (Spring 2001)). 109 Oral Statement of Brazil, para. 116. 110 See First Submission of Brazil, paras. 263-268. 111 See Brazil's 11 August Answer to Question 82, paras. 182-189. 112 http://www.fapri.iastate.edu/Outlook2003/PageMker/OutlookPub%20USCrops.pdf.

The

information on CCP and direct payment per acre payments in US dollars for each of the programme crops is

found in the last two lines of pages 55 (wheat), 57 (rice), 59 (corn), 61 (sorghum), 63 (barley), 65 (oats), 69

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-41
baseline itself and FAPRI analysis has often been influential in US policy formation process, including in analysis of the FSRI Act of 2002, for which FAPRI won the USDA's highest honour.113
83. Second, FAPRI's 2003 US Baseline is a long-run scenario projecting what would happen to various elements of US agriculture under the 2002 FSRI Act. In this analysis, FAPRI includes all of the different types of support provided by the 2002 FSRI Act into its projections of, inter alia, upland cotton planted acreage, production, exports, prices, revenue, costs, etc. In doing so, the FAPRI economists assume that, inter alia, upland cotton producers were holding upland cotton base acreage and receiving upland cotton CCP and direct payments.114 These CCP payments and direct payments are reflected in their analysis of "Gross Market Revenue" to upland cotton producers on page 79 of their report, which constitutes the sum of LDP (marketing loan), CCP revenue, and direct payments.115
84. In addition, FAPRI states that "US cotton producers do not benefit from the projected price increases. Higher prices are offset by lower payments from the loan programme and the CCP programme."116 This reflects the FAPRI economists' assumption that upland cotton producers receive upland cotton direct and CCP payments.

(soybeans), 75 (peanuts) and 79 (upland cotton). Brazil notes that its figures for soybeans and peanuts differ

slightly. The underlying reason for this difference is that Brazil had to base its figures on its estimates about the

payments yields and it appears that FAPRI's figures for payment yields are slightly different from Brazil's. 113 See for example, "Analysis of the grain, oilseed and cotton provision of the, `Agriculture,

Conservation, and Rural Enhancement Act of 2001 ­ S.1731.'" FAPRI-UMC Report #18-01 November 2001.

http://www.fapri.missouri.edu/FAPRI_Publications.htm.

Also see

http://www.card.iastate.edu/about_card/news/press_releases/Highest_Honor.html 114 FAPRI's 2003 US

Baseline,

http://www.fapri.iastate.edu/Outlook2003/PageMker/OutlookPub%20USCrops.pdf, p. 78. 115 FAPRI's 2003 US

Baseline,

http://www.fapri.iastate.edu/Outlook2003/PageMker/OutlookPub%20USCrops.pdf, p. 79. 116 FAPRI's 2003 US

Baseline,

http://www.fapri.iastate.edu/Outlook2003/PageMker/OutlookPub%20USCrops.pdf, p. 78.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-42

List of Exhibits

G/AG/AGST/USA Reestimated Guaranteed Loan Subsidy based on Original Budget Year Estimate. Net Lifetime Reestimates of Guaranteed Loan Subsidy by Cohort. US Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General Great Plains Region Audit Report, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2001, Audit Report N° 06401-4-KC, February 2002 US Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General Financial and IT Operations Audit Report, Audit Report N° 06401-14-FM, Commodity Credit Corporation's Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2000, June 2001 US Department of Agriculture Office of Inspector General Financial and IT Operations Audit Report, US Department of Agriculture Consolidated Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 1999, Report N° 50401-35-FM, February 2000 http://www.nedcor.co.uk/forfait-website/forfaiting.htm Vincent Whittaker, "The Quick Buck, International Finance and Forfaiting," 23 Thomas Jefferson Law Review (Spring 2001) Trade and Forfaiting Review, "Argentina Trade Finance to the Rescue" Volume 6, Issue 9 July/August 2003

Exhibit Bra- 191 Exhibit Bra- 192 Exhibit Bra- 193 Exhibit Bra- 194
Exhibit Bra- 195
Exhibit Bra- 196
Exhibit Bra- 197 Exhibit Bra- 198 Exhibit Bra- 199

ANNEX D-4

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-43

COMMENTS OF THE UNITED STATES ON NEW MATERIAL IN BRAZIL'S REBUTTAL FILINGS AND ANSWER OF THE
UNITED STATES TO THE ADDITIONAL QUESTION FROM THE PANEL
27 August 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Introduction.......................................................................................................................... 43
II. Brazil's AMS Calculation Is Flawed and, Had It Consistently Reflected a Price Gap Calculation, Would Demonstrate No Peace Clause Breach........................... 45
III. The US Level of Support Argument Does Take Into Account All Product-Specific Support That Challenged US Measures Grant.................................... 47
IV. Brazil's New Green Box Arguments Are in Error............................................................ 48
V. Answer to Additional Question 67bis from the Panel....................................................... 50
VI. Payments With Respect to Base Period Production of Certain Commodities But Not Others Are Not Inherently Product-Specific Support ....................................... 53
VII. Brazil's New Arguments Relating to Crop Insurance Do Not Demonstrate that Crop Insurance Payments Are Product-Specific Support ....................................... 55
VIII. Brazil May Not Act Unilaterally on Procedural Matters ................................................. 57
IX. Conclusion ............................................................................................................................ 58
I. Introduction
1. The United States thanks the Panel for its prompt reply to the US request of 25 August 2003, granting an opportunity to comment on new material in Brazil's rebuttal submission and Brazil's comments on the US responses to questions. We also thank the Panel for its additional question. We present both the US comments on new material in Brazil's submissions and our answer to that additional question below.
2. As the United States notes in these comments and answer, Brazil's Peace Clause argument depends on three issues:
 First, Brazil relies on budgetary outlays that reflect prevailing market prices that could not have been "decided" by the United States. Brazil ignores the fact that "support" does not mean "budgetary outlays"; in fact, Annex 3 recognizes that an "Aggregate Measurement of

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-44
Support" for price-based support either shall117 or can118 be calculated using a price gap methodology, which does not rely on budgetary outlays.
 Second, Brazil conflates "non-product-specific support" with "support to a specific commodity" by attempting to allocate certain payments to upland cotton. To do so, however, Brazil relies on a reading of the definition of "non-product-specific support" in Article 1(a) that ignores the most relevant context for this term ­ that is, the (immediately preceding) definition of product-specific support in that same article. Indeed, Brazil's approach would appear to render the concept of "non-product specific support" so narrow that it becomes almost, if not completely, meaningless.
 Third, Brazil mischaracterizes US direct payments and production flexibility contract payments as non-green box support. Brazil has not established that these measures fail to conform to the policy-specific criteria in Annex 2. In fact, Brazil has not even established ­ pursuant to Brazil's own reading of the first sentence of Annex 2, paragraph 1, as a standalone obligation ­ that these payments have more than "minimal[] trade-distorting effects or effects on production."119
3. The weakness of Brazil's interpretation that "support" in the Peace Clause means "budgetary outlays" can be seen in this example. Even if US measures were exactly the same in every year of the implementation period as they were in the 1992 marketing year (that is, the same deficiency target price, same marketing loan rate, same acreage reduction percentage, same normal flex acres with planting flexibility120, etc.), under Brazil's interpretation, US measures would have breached the Peace Clause in each and every year in which outlays increased due to external factors, for example, whenever market prices dipped below the 1992 level.
 Would 1999-2002 US measures identical in every respect to those in 1992 "grant support in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year"?
 In other words, if a Member had decided its support during 1992 for the period through 2004 and never changed its decision, could the Member be deemed to grant support in excess of the
117 In the case of market price support. In fact, Annex 3, paragraph 8, states: "Budgetary outlays made to maintain this gap, such as buying-in or storage costs, shall not be included in the AMS."
118 In the case of non-exempt direct payments dependent on a price gap. See Agreement on Agriculture, Annex 3, paragraph 10.
119 Of course, the US view is that the "fundamental requirement" of the first sentence is met by a measure that conforms to the basic criteria and any applicable policy-specific criteria. In this regard, Brazil errs in claiming that the United States has "acknowledged that such effects can be presumed if the specific criteria in paragraph 6 of Annex 2 are not complied with." Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 8 fn. 13. In fact, we believe the opposite. Meeting the basic and policy-specific criteria of Annex 2 establishes that a measure meets the "fundamental requirement" of paragraph 1. However, the converse is not necessarily true. So, according to Brazil's approach, Brazil would bear the burden of establishing that a measure that did not comply with the basic and policy-specific criteria in Annex 2 failed to meet the "fundamental requirement" of paragraph 1 of Annex 2.
120 Recall that "under 1992 programme provisions, producers of non-cotton programme crops (i.e., wheat, corn, barley, grain sorghum, oats, and rice) could plant up to 25 per cent of their [non-cotton] crop programme base to cotton as Normal Flex Acres or Optional Flex Acres. Acreage Reduction Programme compliance reports indicate that, in 1992, 447,164 acres of cotton were planted on a much larger quantity of available Normal Flex Acres and Option Flex Acres of non-cotton programme base.") Exhibit US-24 (Report by Dr. Joseph Glauber, Deputy Chief Economist, US Department of Agriculture). In 1992, there were 153.9 million acres of non-cotton "complying base" and 197.2 million acres of non-cotton "effective base." See Exhibit US-39. Thus, the marketing loan was effectively available with respect to all upland cotton production.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-45
level decided during 1992 just because outlays increased, for example, because market prices changed?121
We believe the answer must be "No" because market prices are not "decided" by a Member (as paragraphs 8 and 10 of Annex 3 recognize). And yet, the situation in this dispute is analogous: the United States has changed its measures to reduce the product-specific level of support (by eliminating deficiency payments) since 1992, and yet Brazil claims that the Peace Clause has been breached simply because lower market prices resulted in increased price-based outlays.
4. Market prices are beyond the control of the United States, and therefore the United States cannot "decide" them. Removing the effect of market prices beyond the control of the United States from the measure of support demonstrates that US measures do not and did not grant support in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year. In fact, whether gauged (as the United States believes is compelled by the Peace Clause) via the rate of support expressed by US measures122, or via the AMS for upland cotton (calculated through a price gap methodology), or via the erroneous calculations of Brazil's expert (but limited to product-specific support), the result is exactly the same: in no marketing year from 1999 through 2002 have US measures breached the Peace Clause.
II. Brazil's AMS Calculation Is Flawed and, Had It Consistently Reflected a Price Gap Calculation, Would Demonstrate No Peace Clause Breach
5. We recall that Brazil has argued that budgetary outlays are the only measurement of "support" for purposes of the Peace Clause proviso comparison, without any foundation in the Peace Clause text and despite the context provided by Annex 3, which explicitly indicates that Members have agreed "support" can be measured without using budgetary outlays. Brazil itself concedes that US measures do not decide support on the basis of budgetary outlays:
Brazil acknowledges that the United States could not possibl[y] determine its expenditures as they would depend to a certain extent on market prices that were also influenced by factors outside the control of the US Government.123
The United States agrees with this statement by Brazil and believes that this statement demonstrates that Brazil's approach to the Peace Clause comparison is not based on the text nor is it realistic. Instead, in order to hope to succeed, Brazil's claims require Brazil to use budgetary outlays and so to take into account low prevailing market prices. An Aggregate Measurement of Support calculation using a price gap methodology ­ that is, that eliminates the effect of market prices and reflects instead the eligible production and applied administered price decided by a Member ­ reveals that in no year from 1999-2002 have US measures breached the Peace Clause.
6. Brazil has argued that "there are only two types of methodologies that would allow an expression in monetary terms of a decision (or decisions) taken by the United States in MY 1992 regarding its level of support to upland cotton. The first is budgetary expenditures. The second is the calculation of AMS for a particular commodity."124 In both its table of expenditures125 and its AMS
121 Other factors beyond a Member's control could also influence outlays, such as whether some additional producers chose to begin participating in the support programmes.
122 Even taking into account the maximum theoretical effect on the deficiency payment effective price of the 1992 acreage reduction percentage (10 per cent) and normal flex acres (15 per cent) for the 1992 marketing year. Since the acreage reduction percentage was lower for 1993 marketing year (7.5 per cent versus 10 per cent) support, which was also decided during the 1992 marketing year, the adjusted level of support (68.27625 cents per pound) was even higher for the 1993 marketing year.
123 Brazil's Comments on US Answers, para. 66 fn. 49. 124 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 71.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-46
table126, Brazil has attempted to allocate non-product-specific support to a specific commodity. There is no basis in Annex 3 to do so. Annex 3, paragraph 1, explicitly requires an AMS to be calculated "on a product-specific basis for each basic agricultural product" and separately requires that nonproduct-specific support be calculated and "totalled into one non-product-specific AMS in total monetary terms." The point bears emphasis: "for each basic agricultural product," Annex 3 states that an AMS "shall be calculated on a product-specific basis." Similarly, were "support to a specific commodity" (upland cotton) to be calculated using an Aggregate Measurement of Support, it must be calculated "on a product-specific basis."
7. As a result, both Brazil's expenditure table and its AMS table run counter to the terms of Annex 3. Were the Panel to calculate an AMS for upland cotton for marketing years 1992 and 19992002, the United States has set forth a calculation consistent with Annex 3 in its rebuttal submission.127 By using a price-gap methodology for both deficiency payments and marketing loan payments128, the upland cotton AMS in 1992 is far higher than in any marketing year from 1999 to 2002, reflecting the US decision to move away from the high support levels of product-specific deficiency payments.
8. In fact, we note that the AMS data presented in paragraph 115 of the US rebuttal submission understates the AMS for marketing year 1992. For example, the United States reduced the price gap calculation for 1992 basic deficiency payments by an adjustment factor (approximately .875) to replicate the calculation used in G/AG/AGST/USA, p. 18. Without the adjustment, which is not called for by paragraphs 10 and 11 of Annex 3, the 1992 deficiency payment calculation would have been $858 million, rather than $755 million as reported in paragraph 115.129 (In case of interest, we also present below the deficiency payment calculation in more detail, reflecting more accurate data, which would increase the deficiency payment calculation slightly, to $867 million.)130 This
125 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 73. 126 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 76. 127 US Rebuttal Submission, paras. 114-118. 128 Brazil has stated (with respect to deficiency payments) that "the formula approach under Annex 3, paragraphs 10-11 of the Agreement on Agriculture [is] warranted for upland cotton AMS calculations." Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 73 fn. 172. Because the Peace Clause proviso comparison must compare the support that challenged measures grant to "that decided during the 1992 marketing year," the price gap methodology is the only AMS approach that reflects only the United States' decisions and not market prices beyond the United States' control. For the same reason, it is equally appropriate to use the price gap methodology for marketing loan payments. 129 Total deficiency payments calculated via the price gap methodology equal unadjusted basic deficiency payments ($724 million / 0.875) + 50/92 deficiency payments ($30 million) ­ that is, $858 million. See US Rebuttal Submission, para. 115 fn. 144. 130 To calculate the deficiency payment support using the price gap methodology and consistent with the 1995 US WTO notification and G/AG/AGST/USA, we made the following calculations. Total deficiency payments are equal to basic deficiency payments plus 50/92 payments. Basic deficiency payments are equal to eligible production times a price gap measured as the difference between the target price and a fixed reference price. Eligible production is measured as eligible base acreage times average programme yield. Eligible base acreage is equal to participating base acreage minus Acreage Conservation Reserve acres minus Normal Flex Acres minus acres enrolled in the 50/92 programme. The fixed reference price is the1986-88 average of the higher of the market price or loan rate for each year. Payments for the 50/92 programme were calculated in a similar fashion by multiplying base acres in the 50/92 programme times the average programme yield times 92 per cent of the price gap. In 1992, the target price was 72.9 cents per pound and the fixed reference price for 1986-88 was 57.9 cents per pound. This gives a price gap of 15.0 cents per pound. Eligible production for basic deficiency payments in 1992 was equal to 5,544 million pounds (9.226 million acres times the average programme yield of 601 pounds per acre). Multiplying the price gap times eligible production gives basic deficiency payments equal to $832 million. The same formula is used to calculate deficiency payments under the 50/92 programme. For 1992, the price gap is the same as that calculated for the basic deficiency payments (15 cents per pound). Eligible

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-47
calculation, moreover, uses the actual payment acreage (that is, acres planted for harvest or participating in the 50/92 programme on which payment was received) to calculate the "eligible production." Using instead the base acreage minus the 10 per cent acreage reduction figure and the 15 per cent normal flex acres (14.9 million effective base acres131 x .75 = 11.175 million acres) and multiplying by the programme yield (602 pounds per acre), the "quantity of production eligible to receive the administered price"132 is 6,727 million pounds, yielding a price gap deficiency payment calculation of $1,009 million. Thus, the figure in paragraph 115 of the US rebuttal reflected a conservative approach that understated the support resulting from a price gap calculation.
9. In this regard, the United States notes Brazil's argument with respect to the 1995 Statement of Administrative Action, which explained that Peace Clause protection would apply "unless the AMS for the particular commodity exceeds the level decided in the 1992 marketing year."133 We agree with Brazil that this reference to "AMS" is "non-textual[]" because the Peace Clause uses the term "support decided" and not "AMS."134 However, to the extent that the Panel were to examine "the AMS for the particular commodity" ­ that is, the upland cotton AMS ­ the United States has demonstrated that in no year from 1999-2002 does that AMS exceed the 1992 level.
III. The US Level of Support Argument Does Take Into Account All Product-Specific Support That Challenged US Measures Grant
10. Brazil has argued that "the United States `72.9 methodology' does not ­ and cannot account for cottonseed payments, Step 2 payments, storage payments and interest rate subsidies," which the United States has identified as product-specific support.135 Brazil then alleges that the US methodology "would sanction the cover-up of hundreds of millions ­ if not billions ­ of dollars of expenditures."136 Over-heated rhetoric aside, Brazil's argument is simply erroneous.
production under the 50/92 programme was 254 million pounds (404 thousand acres times the average programme yield of 50/92 participants of 628 pounds per acre). Deficiency payments under the 50/92 programme were thus equal to $35 million (0.92 times 254 million times $0.15).
Total deficiency payments under the price gap methodology were thus equal to $867 million ($832 million plus $35 million). Sources: US Department of Agriculture, Compliance Report for 1992 Acreage Reduction Programme (1993) (Exhibit US-39); Commodity Credit Corporation Commodity Estimates Book for the FY 1995 President's Budget (February 1994); G/AG/AGST/USA, p. 18.
131 See Exhibit Bra-105, Annex 2 (1st source document: US Department of Agriculture, Provisions of the Federal Agricultural Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, at 142) (giving 1992 effective base acreage of 14.9 million acres); id., Annex 2 (2nd source document: Daniel A. Sumner, Farm Programmes and Related Policy in the United States, at 4) (same).
132 Agreement on Agriculture, Annex 3, para. 10. 133 We also note that Brazil never quotes that passage in full since the first half reflects the US view throughout this dispute that "exempt from actions" means not liable to a legal process or suit. See 1995 Statement, at 68 ( "Under Article 13(b)(ii) and (iii), governments may not initiate adverse effects, serious prejudice or non-violation nullification and impairment challenges in the WTO . . . .") (emphasis added). There are numerous other statements in the 1995 Statement that Brazil similarly does not draw to the Panel's attention. See id. at 67 ("Article 13, commonly referred to as the peace clause, reflects an agreement among WTO countries to refrain from challenging certain of each other's agricultural subsidy programmes . . . through WTO dispute settlement procedures . . . .") (emphasis added); id. ("Article 13(b) addresses possible challenges to domestic support measures falling outside the green box in circumstances in which the WTO member providing the subsidy is meeting its total AMS commitments.") (emphasis added). 134 Brazil's Opening Statement, para. 35; Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 75; see also 1995 Statement of Administrative Action, at 68 (subsequently in same paragraph quoted by Brazil stating "a WTO Member will not be protected by the Peace Clause if its support for the product is above that decided during the 1992 marketing year.") (emphasis added). 135 Brazil's General Comment on US Answers to Questions 47-69 from the Panel (para. 55). 136 Brazil's General Comment on US Answers to Questions 47-69 from the Panel (para. 56).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-48
11. Brazil argues that the United States has not accounted for Step 2 payments. The United States directs the Panel's attention to the US rebuttal submission, paragraphs 111 and 113, and the US first written submission, paragraph 111. The United States has noted that, because the availability of Step 2 payments is contingent on certain price conditions existing during the marketing year, the level of support decided must relate to the payment parameters. While these have changed slightly with the 2002 Act, these minor adjustments do not alter the revenue ensured for producers by the marketing loan rate of 52 cents per pound because Step 2 merely provides an alternative avenue of providing support (through processors rather than directly to producers). In addition, these minor adjustments cannot overcome the greater than 20 cents per pound difference in product-specific support between marketing years 1992 and 1999-2002.
12. Brazil argues that the United States has not accounted for cottonseed payments. The United States directs the Panel's attention to the US rebuttal submission, paragraph 111 fn. 136, 137 and paragraph 113. While the United States maintains that these measures are not within the Panel's terms of reference137, we note that cottonseed payments for the 1999, 2000, and 2002 crops ranged in value between 0.6 to 2.3 cents per pound (factoring expenditures ­ the way these measures were decided ­ over production). Thus, given the greater than 20 cents per pound difference in productspecific support between marketing years 1992 and 1999-2002, cottonseed payments too do not materially affect the comparison between marketing year 1992 and any other year.
13. With respect to storage payments and interest rate subsidies, we note that these are US Government estimates of support provided through activities relating to operating the upland cotton marketing loan programme.138 This support is already captured, however, in the level of support expressed by the marketing loan rate. Were these costs not borne by the United States, the costs to the producer would reduce the guaranteed revenue below the loan rate. In fact, Annex 3 of the Agreement on Agriculture explains that, for purposes of market price support calculated using a price gap, "[b]udgetary payments made to maintain this gap, such as buying-in or storage costs, shall not be included in the AMS." Similarly, where the support provided by marketing loans is measured using a price gap methodology (the only appropriate AMS calculation for purposes of the Peace Clause)139, "payments made to maintain this gap," such as storage payments and interest rate subsidies, should not be counted separately.
IV. Brazil's New Green Box Arguments Are in Error
14. In its rebuttal submission and comments on US answers to questions from the Panel, Brazil advances two novel arguments. First, Brazil for the first time responds to the US argument that Brazil's interpretation of paragraph 6(b) would create an inconsistency between that provision and the fundamental requirement of the first sentence of Annex 2, paragraph 1.140 Second, Brazil argues that the US interpretation of Annex 2, paragraph 6(b), would render paragraph 6(e) of that Annex a nullity. Neither of these arguments withstands scrutiny.
15. First, Brazil misunderstands the US argument that Brazil's reading of paragraph 6(b) creates an inconsistency between that paragraph and the fundamental requirement of the first sentence of Annex 2, paragraph 1, and therefore its arguments go astray. The United States has noted that if payments under a decoupled income support measure were reduced or eliminated if a recipient were to produce any commodity, then the amount of payments would be (on Brazil's reading) linked to the type of production and therefore inconsistent with paragraph 6(b), even though such a measure would
137 See US Rebuttal Submission, paras. 106-09. 138 For example, for storage payments we estimate expenses incurred with respect to upland cotton put under loan and pledged as collateral. 139 See US Rebuttal Submission, paras. 114-17. 140 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, paras. 4-9.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-49
meet the fundamental requirement of Annex 2. Brazil does not contest that such a measure would meet that fundamental requirement but instead argues that "requiring no production, i.e., on all base acres is not a `type of production'" because "[t]he notion of `type of production' in paragraph 6(b) is necessarily linked to the amount of payment to some `type' of commodity that is `produced' and not to a production requirement itself."141
16. With respect, if one were to credit this argument, then Brazil would appear to have misunderstood its own objection to US direct payments and production flexibility contract payments. That is, in the US example, payments are reduced or eliminated if a recipient produces any type of commodity. Similarly, Brazil's objection to US green box payments is that payments are reduced or eliminated if a recipient produces certain types of commodities. Thus, in the former example, the amount of payment is "based on" (in the sense of being reduced by) "the type" of production undertaken by the producer ­ for example, production of upland cotton, fruits, vegetables, or wild rice ­ just as in Brazil's argument on US green box payments, the amount of payment is "based on" (in the sense of being reduced by) "the type" of production undertaken by the producer ­ that is, fruit, vegetable, or wild rice production. Brazil's objection to US green box payments under paragraph 6(b) would therefore apply with equal force to the US example,142 again, posing an inconsistency between Brazil's interpretation of paragraph 6(b) and the fundamental requirement of Annex 2.143
17. Brazil also argues that the US interpretation of paragraph 6(b) "would render Annex 2, paragraph 6(e)[,] a nullity" because the "US interpretation of paragraph 6(b) as not requiring the production of `certain crops' is the same as 6(e)'s prohibition on not requiring production of `any crops.'"144 Brazil's own re-phrasing of the US argument, however, points to the distinction between the obligations contained in these two provisions. Paragraph 6(e) establishes that under a green box measure: "No production shall be required in order to receive such payments." Thus, there can be no production requirement "in order to receive such payments," but the provision is silent with respect to the amount of such payments at any particular time and any links to the "type or volume of production." That is, were paragraph 6(e) alone part of Annex 2, a Member could arguably link the amount of payments to requirements on the "type or volume of production" so long as payment eligibility were not contingent on production.
18. Paragraph 6(b) forecloses that option by prohibiting a green box measure from linking the "amount of such payments in any given year" to "the type or volume of production." That is, not only may a green box measure not require production, but the measure may not require a particular "type or volume of production" in order to obtain a payment amount. As the United States has noted, both direct payments and production flexibility contract payments meet that test because no "type or volume of production" is required to receive payments. For example, with respect to the fruits, vegetables, and wild rice planting flexibility issue, a payment recipient need not undertake any "type or volume of production" in order to receive the full "amount of payments" to which the farm's base acres are entitled. Rather, the recipient need only desist from planting certain commodities. Thus, Brazil's objection is nothing more than a statement that, under US green box measures, the amount of payments is linked to production not undertaken by the producer.
141 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 6. Brazil concludes the thought: "Otherwise, it logically could not be a `type' of production. It would be nothing at all."
142 See Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 4 ("The relevant text of paragraph 6(b) prohibits any linkage of the `amount of payments' to any `type of production' of an agricultural product.") (emphasis added).
143 Brazil's reference to paragraph 6(e) does not answer this objection. Brazil argues that "negotiators addressed any possible misunderstanding in this regard by including the very concept of prohibiting the requirement to produce in paragraph 6(e)." Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 6. However, as Brazil immediately points out, conformity with paragraph 6(e) "does not exempt . . . payments from conforming to the requirement of paragraph 6(b)."
144 Brazil's Comment on US Answer to Question 32 from the Panel (para. 44).

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-50
19. Finally, we note that Brazil's reading of paragraph 6(b) could prevent Members from imposing on decoupled income support payment recipients any conditions relating to the type of production ­ for example, the planting of illegal crops or production of unapproved biotech varieties or environmentally damaging production. As a practical matter, no Member could accept not being able to impose any such conditions on payment recipients. The result of Brazil's reading, then, would be to read decoupled income support out of Annex 2. This may be a favourable result from the Brazilian perspective, but the Panel should not adopt an interpretation of paragraph 6(b) not required by the text, not consistent with its context (in particular, the fundamental requirement of Annex 2), and with such potentially far-reaching results.
V. Answer to Additional Question 67bis from the Panel
67bis. Please state the annual amount granted by the US government in each of the 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 marketing years (as applicable) to US upland cotton producers, per pound and in total expenditures, under each of the following programmes: production flexibility contract payments, market loss assistance payments, direct payments and counter-cyclical payments.
20. The Panel's question would require ascertaining for each programme the amount of upland cotton produced by recipients of payments under the programme. However, the United States does not maintain and cannot calculate this information ­ that is, it does not maintain information on the amount of expenditures made under the cited programmes to US upland cotton producers. This is because the payments do not relate to, and do not depend on, what crop, if any, is actually produced. Instead, each of these programmes makes payments with respect to past production on base acreage in a fixed and defined base period, not with respect to whether one is currently a producer.
21. Thus, the United States did track total expenditures with respect to base acres of wheat, corn, barley, grain sorghum, oats, upland cotton, and rice under the expired production flexibility contract payments and market loss assistance payments and does track total expenditure with respect to base acres of wheat, corn, barley, grain sorghum, oats, upland cotton, rice, peanuts, soybeans, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, and sesame seed under the direct payments and counter-cyclical payments.145 However, the fact that a recipient at one time produced one of these crops says nothing about what crops the recipient is currently producing, if any. In other words, payments made on the basis of past production of upland cotton do not tell anything about whether the recipient is currently producing cotton, corn, livestock, hay, or any other crop or is not producing at all. As a result, it is not possible to derive from these payments whether the payment is being received by an upland cotton producer.
22. The Panel's question points to a fundamental difficulty with Brazil's approach. Brazil would have the Panel allocate "support to a specific commodity" ­ upland cotton ­ on the basis that certain of these measures determine payment amounts (for base acres) based on current or recent market prices for that commodity. However, how could the payment be "support to a specific commodity" (support "provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producer of the basic agricultural product") if there need be no production of upland cotton in order to receive payment?
23. Brazil attempts to avoid this result by arguing that various US payments (direct, countercyclical, production flexibility contract, and market loss assistance payments) are not non-productspecific support because they are not payments to "producers in general." The United States has addressed this erroneous interpretation in detail in its rebuttal submission. In short, Brazil's reading requires ignoring the definition of product-specific support in Article 1(a) (that is "support . . .
145 See US First Written Submission, para. 57 fn. 46.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-51
provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product"), which Brazil has not interpreted, in over 450 pages of submissions and statements, even once.146 In fact, Brazil's reading of the definition of non-product-specific support ("support provided in favour of agricultural producers in general") reads the phrase "in general" as meaning "in a body; universally; without exception." However, this dictionary definition is considered "obsolete"147 and so would hardly be the "ordinary meaning" of the term.
24. As Brazil has conceded, moreover, payments made with respect to upland cotton base acres are not necessarily in favor of upland cotton producers since those acres may not be planted to upland cotton ­ indeed, may not be planted at all. We note that Brazil has adjusted its entire AMS calculation to reflect its belated realization that, under its own theory, "only the portion of . . . payments [on "upland cotton" base acres] that actually benefits acres planted to upland cotton can be considered support to upland cotton."148 But Brazil's adjustment is not enough. Brazil simply takes the ratio of actual upland cotton acreage to "upland cotton" base acreage under a given programme. However, there is no reason why upland cotton acreage need be planted on "upland cotton" base acreage. Consider this example:
 One farm could have 100 base acres of upland cotton and currently plant those 100 acres to corn; direct and counter-cyclical payments would be made on those 100 "upland cotton" base acres that actually are planted to corn.
 Another farm could have 100 base acres of corn and currently plant those 100 acres to upland cotton; direct and counter-cyclical payments would be made on those 100 "corn" base acres that actually are planted to upland cotton.
 Brazil's approach (dividing upland cotton planted by upland cotton base acres) would simply say that all of the direct and counter-cyclical payments on "upland cotton" base acres are "support to upland cotton" because there are 100 "upland cotton" base acres on which payments were made and 100 acres currently planted to upland cotton, even though these are found on completely separate farms.
Thus, Brazil's ratio does not identify, even on Brazil's own terms, the alleged support to upland cotton (that is, "payments that actually benefit[] acres planted to upland cotton") under these programmes.149
25. Brazil's own approach would require Brazil to match up payments for upland cotton base acres with the amount of upland cotton production on those base acres, but Brazil has not done so.150
146 See, e.g., Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 19 (again misquoting the definition of product-specific support in Article 1(a) by eliminating the phrase support provided "for an agricultural product" and failing to interpret that definition according to the customary rules of interpretation of public international law); Brazil's Comments on US Answer to Question 43 from the Panel (paras. 58-60) (criticizing US interpretation of productspecific support but failing to interpret that definition according to the customary rules of interpretation of public international law); Brazil's Comments on US Answer to Question 38 from the Panel (paras. 48-49) (same).
147 See The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, vol. 1, at 1073 (first definition of "in general": " (a) in a body; universally; without exception"); id., vol. 1, at xv (sec. 4.5.2: Status symbols) ("The dagger [] indicates that a word, sense, form, or construction is obsolete. It is placed before the relevant word(s) or relevant sense number.").
148 See, e.g., Brazil's Answer to Question 67 from the Panel (table, fn. 2, 3, 4, 5). 149 We also would reiterate that such payments would not be "support to a specific commodity" as explained in Article 1(a) and reflected in Annex 3. 150 For example, Brazil admits that "this acknowledged legal flexibility to grow other crops does not answer the question of whether the producers planting 14.2 million aces of upland cotton in MY 2002 received direct and counter-cyclical payments. Nor does it answer the question of whether the 14.2 million acres planted

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-52
At best, Brazil speculates as to the likelihood of a person with cotton base acres actually producing upland cotton on those base acres, and even that speculation is flawed.151 However, such an approach amounts to little more than speculation and, even if Brazil's erroneous interpretation were used, does not meet Brazil's burden of establishing a prima facie case.
26. In addition, under Brazil's own approach, the payments made in relation to corn base acres would be support for corn even if planted to upland cotton. However, Brazil's approach would appear to result in double counting the support ­ the same payment would be support to corn (because it was related to corn base acres) and support to upland cotton (because cotton was produced on base acres eligible for payments). In other words, Brazil is trying to have it both ways:
 First, Brazil argues that payments made based on production on base acres during a base period is support to the crop that was produced during that base period, regardless of what is actually produced currently (that is, payments made for upland cotton base acreage is support to upland cotton even if the producer is now growing corn on that acreage).
 Second, Brazil argues that payments made under these programmes are support to the crop that is currently being produced, even if the crop being produced is different from the base crop (that is, payments made for corn base acreage is support to upland cotton if upland cotton is being produced on the corn base).
27. Furthermore, because payments under the cited programmes are made with respect to historic acres and yields during a base period, it is not possible to calculate the "annual amount granted by the US government . . . to US upland cotton producers, per pound." Counter-cyclical payments, for example, determine the payment rate for base period production as the difference between a target price and the sum of the direct payment rate plus the higher of the market price or the loan rate. However, the per pound payment rate for upland cotton base acres applies only for base period production (base acres x payment yields), not current production. Thus, to express these payments per pound begs the question: "Per pound of what?" Any production figure used ­ whether base period production or production in any year from 1999 through 2002 ­ results in a highly artificial per pound
to upland cotton in MY 2002 were planted on upland cotton base acreage." Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 38 (emphasis in original). The United States agrees completely, and while Brazil's approach would require that these questions be answered, Brazil has not answered them, even though under Brazil's approach, Brazil would have the burden of proof in this regard. Rather, Brazil tries to construct a series of assumption based on what Brazil considers "likely" or "maybe" or "probably."
151 See Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, paras. 24-50. Brazil makes a lengthy presentation of new data and calculations, including some with respect to crops other than upland cotton, to assert that these four payments are support for upland cotton because without them upland cotton farmers could not cover their costs. However, Brazil's approach is flawed in terms of its facts and the premises on which it relies. In the time available we have not been able to identify and describe all the flaws and inaccuracies in Brazil's presentation of the data. Simply by way of example, however, we note that (1) Brazil includes a figure for cottonseed payments in its graph purporting to show MY 2001 market revenue and government support (Rebuttal Submission, paragraph 30), but Brazil's own table at paragraph 84 of its rebuttal submission reflects that there were no cottonseed payments for the 2001 marketing year; (2) Brazil's theory would appear to be that cotton production on cotton base acres are "necessary" because without government payments costs of production would not be covered, but Brazil presents information only with respect to one year, marketing year 2001, with record low prices - Brazil does not explain its theory or present any data with respect to other years with more typical prices; (3) Brazil asserts that upland cotton production "is produced only in particular regions . . . and producers tend to specialize and not readily switch to other crops" ­ whereas cotton is produced in 17 of the 50 United States and, for all US cotton farms, average cotton area is approximately 38 per cent of a farm's acres (469 of 1,222 acres) (US Department of Agriculture, Characteristics and Production Costs of US Cotton Farms (October 2001).)

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-53

rate since (as noted above) these payments will be or were (as the case may be) received by a recipient regardless of whether he or she produced any upland cotton production.
28. We are able to provide to the Panel the total outlays under the cited programmes with respect to upland cotton base acreage:

Total Outlays Under Certain Programmes with respect to Upland Cotton Base Acres (millions US$)

Payments152

MY1999

MY2000

MY2001

MY2002

Production

614 575 474 452

flexibility contract

Market loss assistance

613 612 524 NA

Direct

NA NA NA not yet available153

Counter-cyclical

NA

NA

NA not yet

available154

VI. Payments With Respect to Base Period Production of Certain Commodities But Not Others Are Not Inherently Product-Specific Support
29. Brazil has argued that production flexibility contract payments, market loss assistance payments, direct payments, and counter-cyclical payments are product-specific support. The United States had addressed some infirmities in Brazil's approach in response to Additional Question 67bis from the Panel and in previous submissions.155 The United States now briefly addresses two arguments presented by Brazil.
30. First, Brazil argues that each of these payments is product-specific because base acreage is defined as acreage on which only some commodities were historically produced during a defined and fixed base period. This argument, again, rests on an "obsolete" definition of "in general" (in the definition of non-product-specific support) as "universal" or "without exception" and a determined refusal to quote accurately and interpret the definition of product-specific support in Article 1(a).156

152 See Exhibit US-38 (http://www.fsa.usda.gov/dam/BUD/bud1.htm) (for crop years 1999, 2000, and

2001). 153 The US Department of Agriculture estimates that direct payments for the 2002 marketing year with

respect to upland cotton base acres will total $173 million.

Exhibit US-18

(www.fsa.usda.gov/dam/BUD/estimatesbook.htm). 154 The US Department of Agriculture estimates that counter-cyclical payments for the 2002 marketing

year with respect to upland cotton base acres will total $873 million. Exhibit US-18

(www.fsa.usda.gov/dam/BUD/estimatesbook.htm). 155 See, e.g., US Rebuttal Submission, paras. 79-92, 99-105. 156 We note that, once again, Brazil has misquoted the definition of product-specific support in

Article 1(a). Brazil quotes that definition as follows: "For support not provided to agricultural producers in

general, the test is whether the support is `provided in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural

product.'" Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 19. The actual text of Article 1(a), in pertinent part, reads:

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-54
That these payments are made with respect to base acreage for only some commodities is not relevant to the question whether they are support "provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product."157 None of these payments satisfies either part of this definition: they are neither provided "for an agricultural product" (rather, they are made with respect to historic production of several products) nor "in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product" (no production is necessary for payments to be made).
31. Brazil also appears to now argue that the requirement under paragraph 6(a) of Annex 2 that eligibility for payments under a decoupled income support measure "shall be determined by clearly-defined criteria such as income, status as a producer or landowner, factor use or production level in a defined and fixed base period" requires that these payments be made to all producers for all commodities. This approach would seriously limit the ability of Members to move to decoupled income support. It is not clear that any Member would be willing to switch to decoupled income support if it required expanding support to whole new classes of producers or commodities. We can find no basis for this approach in the text of paragraph 6(a). This definition does not require comprehensive coverage of all or nearly all production in "a defined and fixed base period"; it merely requires "clearly-defined criteria." Thus, under Brazil's reading, a measure could satisfy the requirement of Annex 2, paragraph 6(a), and yet qualify as product-specific support under Article 1(a).
32. Second, Brazil again selectively quotes the statutory definition of "producers" to suggest that recipients of these payments had to be growers who "shared in the risk of producing a crop."158 As the United States has previously noted, the statute defines "producers" (those eligible in the first instance to receive payment) as persons who "would have shared had the crop been produced."159 Thus, both the 2002 and 1996 Acts make clear that a payment recipient need not produce any crop (including upland cotton) to receive payment. It is thus a serious error to imply that a payment recipient is necessarily a "producer" in the Agreement on Agriculture rather than a "producer" (meaning "recipient") in the statutory sense.
33. Nowhere in Brazil's submission is there any suggestion of how its approach can be found in the Agreement on Agriculture. It does not make sense of the definitions of product-specific support and non-product-specific support in Article 1(a), which Brazil has recognized guide the interpretation of the phrase "support to a specific commodity" in the Peace Clause. In sum, Brazil's argument
"support . . . provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product" (emphasis added). What Brazil describes as "the narrow US Article 13(b)(ii) specificity standard" in fact flows from an interpretation of Article 13 that makes sense of the entire text of Article 1(a) and not just selected parts of it.
157 Indeed, Brazil's argument in paragraph 36 of its rebuttal submission rests on a non sequitur. Brazil's statement is that: "Thus, direct payments are not available to the great majority of US producers of agricultural commodities, i.e., they are not provided to US agricultural producers in general." (Emphasis in original.) The illogic in Brazil's statement is that, by removing the requirement to produce any particular crop or any crop at all in order to receive these payments, the United States does in fact make the payments available to producers in general. Recipients are free to produce a broad range of commodities, and so are producers of agricultural commodities "in general." Brazil appears to acknowledge that the payments are not in fact tied to current production when, in paragraph 50, Brazil concedes that the payments are made to "upland cotton base acreage holders" rather than to upland cotton producers.
158 See Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, paras. 24 (quoting first half of definition), 29 ("Thus, as with PFC payments, market loss assistance payments were not paid to agricultural producers in general but rather to only a select group of US producers), 36 ("Direct payments are targeted support to "producers" farming, inter alia, on upland cotton base acreage."), 48 ("But the evidence demonstrates that CCP funds in MY 2002 paid to "historic" (i.e., 1998-2001 or 1993-1995) upland cotton producers are paid to a tiny fraction of total US producers of agricultural commodities.").
159 US Rebuttal Submission, paras. 36-38.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-55
provides ample evidence that the phrase "support to a specific commodity" in the Peace Clause must be interpreted in the context provided by the Agreement on Agriculture. To divorce it from that context may result in an unworkable and illogical interpretation along the lines suggested by Brazil.
VII. Brazil's New Arguments Relating to Crop Insurance Do Not Demonstrate that Crop Insurance Payments Are Product-Specific Support
34. Brazil presents a number of arguments claiming that crop insurance payments are "support to a specific commodity." In part, this argument relies on the notion that such payments are not support provided to agricultural producers "in general" and, hence, not non-product-specific support. We note, however, that in making these arguments Brazil avoids any reference to the definition of product-specific support in Article 1(a). This is a fundamental interpretive error: Brazil cannot claim that payments are not support to "agricultural producers in general" under Article 1(a) without providing an interpretation of the other component of support in Article 1(a), namely, product-specific support (support "provided for an agricultural product in favour of the producers of the basic agricultural product"). In fact, given that crop insurance support is available to approximately 100 agricultural commodities, representing approximately 80 per cent of US area planted and greater than 85 per cent of the value of all US crops, crop insurance payments are not support "provided for an agricultural product."160 The support to these approximately 100 commodities is the same: that is, the crop insurance premium subsidies do not vary by commodity or plan of insurance.
35. Brazil's specific arguments fail to address the definition of product-specific support in Article 1(a); thus, each fails to demonstrate that crop insurance payments are "support to a specific commodity" rather than "support to several commodities."
36. First, Brazil argues that certain policies (and accompanying premiums) on irrigation failures are available only to upland cotton and a few other commodities. The United States has previously addressed this argument and directs the Panel's attention to that argument.161
37. Second, Brazil argues that a larger pool of types of insurance policies are offered to upland cotton than most other crops. Brazil has not explained how the types of crop insurance policies offered by private companies162 can affect whether US crop insurance payments (premium subsidies that do not vary by commodity or insurance plan) are product-specific or not. Brazil's "facts" are also misleading in some instances and erroneous in others. For example, Brazil suggests that "in many instances, the policies available for cotton enterprises are not available for other crops."163 However, we note that commodities other than upland cotton can be insured under the same types of policies as upland cotton.164
160 US Rebuttal Submission, paras. 93-98. 161 See US Rebuttal Submission, para. 54. 162 Under the Agricultural Risk Protection Act, new insurance products must be developed by the private sector and approved by the Board of Directors of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. The US Department of Agriculture is expressly prohibited from conducting research and development on new products. Thus, the variety and availability of insurance products reflects the fact that private companies, not the US Government, have developed and offered these products. 163 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 55. 164 Upland cotton producers can insure their crops under the following types of policies: Actual Production History, Group Risk Plan, Income Protection, Crop Revenue Coverage, and Revenue Assurance. Other crops that are eligible for the policies include: for Actual Production History ­ Alfalfa seed, all other grapefruit, almonds, apples, avocados, barley, blueberries, cabbage, canola, cigar binder tobacco, cigar filler tobacco, cigar wrapper tobacco, corn, cotton, ELS cotton, crambe, cranberries, cultivated wild rice, dry beans, dry peas, early and midseason oranges, figs, flax, forage production, fresh apricots, fresh freestone peaches, fresh market tomatoes, fresh nectarines, grain sorghum, grapefruit, grapes, green peas, late oranges, lemons, macadamia nuts, mandarins, Maryland tobacco,

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-56
38. Third, Brazil argues that are there specific upland cotton provisions in certain policies.165 This is true ­ an insurance product offered by a private company must be tailored for the situation and desires of the insurance purchasers ­ but also irrelevant as the policies are generally similar in underwriting rules and share the same subsidy schedule.
39. Fourth, Brazil argues that upland cotton producer participation rates in the crop insurance programme "is much higher that for other crops."166 We first note that Brazil neglects to mention that participation rates for the major field crops are generally quite high (over 75 per cent of insurable acres). Any producer who received disaster assistance was required to purchase federal crop insurance in the following year; cotton participation may be slightly higher because of droughts that have hit cotton regions in recent years. More importantly, that cotton producers may choose to take up crop insurance more than producers of other commodities might is irrelevant to whether the payments are provided "for an agricultural product." Again, the crop insurance premium subsidy is identical for all commodities and for each plan of insurance.
40. Fifth, Brazil argues that tracking the cost of reinsurance provided to private companies is "further evidence that USDA treats crop insurance for upland cotton separately from crop insurance provided to other crops."167 Of course, the way the US Department of Agriculture "tracks cost[s]" is irrelevant to the analysis of whether crop insurance payments provide support "for an agricultural product." Brazil also misinterprets the Standard Reinsurance Agreement between the US Government and private insurers. Under that Agreement, net underwriting gains and losses for each insurer are calculated at the state level over all crops, not separately for individual crops (such as upland cotton).168 Thus, Brazil errs when it claims that reinsurance provides evidence that crop insurance for upland cotton is treated separately from crop insurance provided to other crops.
41. Sixth, Brazil claims that "the 2000 ARP Act denies subsidies to producers of other agricultural products."169 It is true that there are certain products for which policies have not been developed. However, development of new policies is ongoing; for example, provisions of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 allow for the development of livestock insurance products. A number of livestock products are currently available on a pilot basis, including price insurance for hogs and feeder cattle and gross margin insurance. We also note that producers may currently insure livestock and dairy revenue as part of whole farm insurance offered through the Adjusted Gross Revenue Insurance.170 Finally, Brazil's argument here again reads domestic producers "in general' to mean "universally" or "without exception"; as noted above, that definition is now considered obsolete.
millet, Minneola tangelos, mint, mustard, navel oranges, oats, onions, Orlando tangelos, peaches, peanuts, pears, plums, popcorn, potatoes, processing apricots, processing beans, processing cling peaches, processing freestone, prunes, rice, Rio Red and Star Ruby grapefruit, Ruby Red grapefruit, rye, safflower, soybeans, sugar beets, sugarcane, sunflowers, sweet corn, sweet oranges, sweet potatoes, table grapes, tomatoes, Valencia oranges, walnuts, wheat;
for Group Risk ­ corn, cotton, forage production, grain sorghum, rangeland, soybeans, wheat; for Income Protection ­ barley, corn, cotton, grain sorghum, soybeans, wheat; and ` for Revenue Assurance ­ barley, canola, cotton, grain sorghum, rice, soybeans, sunflowers, wheat. See http://www3.rma.usda.gov/apps/sob/current_week/crop2003.pdf. 165 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 55. 166 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 57. 167 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 58. 168 The provisions of the Standard Reinsurance Agreement are available on the Risk Management Agency website at: http://www.rma.usda.gov/pubs/ra/98SRA.pdf. 169 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, para. 59. 170 More information on Adjusted Gross Revenue Insurance can be found on the Risk Management Agency website at: http://www.rma.usda.gov/pubs/2003/PAN-1667-06rev.pdf.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-57
42. Finally, with respect to Brazil's references to the literature on the effects of crop insurance on production,171 the findings are (contrary to what Brazil has claimed) mixed. While several studies (such as those cited by Brazil) have suggested crop insurance payments may have a slight effect on acreage, the effects on production are less clear.172 If crop insurance encourages moral hazard problems (as claimed by Brazil), crop yields will be adversely affected as producers attempt to increase crop insurance indemnities. If moral hazard and adverse selection problems are severe, crop insurance support could potentially have a negative effect on production.173 The potential production effects of crop insurance payments, moreover, goes to whether such payments are "amber box" support but does not figure in the question whether such payments (which are offered at the same rate across commodities and policies) can be support "for an agricultural product."
VIII. Brazil May Not Act Unilaterally on Procedural Matters
43. The United States takes note of Brazil's statement in its 25 August 2003 letter to the Panel174 that, concerning paragraph 20 of the Panel's determination of 20 June 2003, "Brazil interpreted this ruling as permitting it to provide no later than 22 August all of its evidence and argument that had not already been provided in its earlier submissions. This is the manner in which it treated the new evidence and arguments presented by the United States in its Rebuttal Submissions." The United States is unable to reconcile Brazil's position concerning its own ability to provide evidence and arguments at any time up through August 22 with Brazil's repeated assertions that the United States "should have" provided particular material in its replies to the Panel's questions.175 There is of course no basis for Brazil's assertions that particular material "should have been" provided in replies to questions rather than in a rebuttal submission. There is no basis for Brazil to dictate to another Member what it may or may not include in its rebuttal submission. Brazil is fabricating an obligation and attempting to impose it on the United States at the same time that it exempts itself from this obligation. In this, Brazil's approach is similar to its repeated attempts in this dispute to add to the obligations in the Agreement on Agriculture and the Subsidies Agreement.
171 Brazil's Rebuttal Submission, paras. 60-67. 172 The US Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service, studies cited by Brazil only examine the effects of crop insurance subsidies on acreage. They do not consider effects on crop yields. 173 Recent studies by Smith and Goodwin (1996), Babcock and Hennessy (1996) and Goodwin and Smith (2003) suggest that farms with more insurance tend to use less inputs like fertilizer and pesticides and vice versa. This demonstrates a potential moral hazard problem with crop insurance that suggests that crop insurance participation may have a negative effect on yields. See Babcock, B. and D. Hennessy. "Input Demand Under Yield and Revenue Insurance" American Journal of Agricultural Economics 78(1996):416-27; Goodwin, B. and V. Smith. "An Ex Post Evaluation of the Conservation Reserve, Federal Crop Insurance, and other Government Programmes: Programme Participation and Soil Erosion." Journal of Agriculture and Resource Economics 28(2003):201-216; Smith, V. and B. Goodwin. "Crop Insurance, Moral Hazard and Agricultural Chemical Use." American Journal of Agricultural Economics 78(1996):428-38. 174 The United States also notes that the Panel's communication of 19 August 2003 had not indicated that the parties would have an opportunity to comment on each other's requests to comment. Had there been such an opportunity, the United States would have been happy to comment on Brazil's request of 23 August 2003. Perhaps Brazil could reconsider whether it has a basis to assert a right to decide that it may unilaterally provide comments to the Panel while denying the United States the same procedural rights. Under Brazil's approach, it would not have needed to request permission from the Panel to file comments on Wednesday, August 27, but could have simply provided those comments, unsolicited, while denying equal access for the United States. The United States is grateful that the Panel's extremely prompt reply to the US request obviated any need to respond to Brazil's unauthorized and out of order comments on that request. 175 See Brazil's 23 August 2003 letter to the Panel.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-58
IX. Conclusion
44. The United States has demonstrated that using any measurement that reflects the support "decided" by the United States rather than factors (such as market prices) beyond the United States' control, US support to upland cotton in marketing years 1999-2002 has not exceeded the 1992 marketing year level. The question then is whether the Panel will find that the United States has breached the Peace Clause simply because market prices were lower in some recent years than they were in 1992.
45. The United States submits that the Peace Clause must be interpreted in a way that permits Members to comply in good faith ­ that is, Members must be able to tell if they will breach the Peace Clause or not. Brazil's budgetary outlays approach does not do that. Brazil's approach would mean that Members could not know if they had complied with the Peace Clause until it was too late to do anything about it. The best way to interpret the Peace Clause in a way that allows Members to comply is to use the "support" as "decided" by a Member during the 1992 marketing year as the basis for comparison. Recognizing, as the United States believes is required by the Peace Clause text, that "decided" and "grant" cover only those parameters over which Members exercise control would also be consistent with this approach of allowing "good faith" compliance since it would permit Members to control whether their measures conformed to their obligations.
46. The United States has disciplined itself to grant support not in excess of that decided during the 1992 marketing year. Therefore, we are entitled to the protection of the Peace Clause, and we respectfully request the Panel to find that Brazil may not maintain this action challenging these conforming US measures.

WT/DS267/R/Add.1 Page D-59
List of Exhibits
1. US Department of Agriculture, Fiscal Year Actual Budgetary Expenditures by Crop Year (http://www.fsa.usda.gov/dam/BUD/bud1.htm) 2. US Department of Agriculture, Compliance Report for 1992 Acreage Reduction Programme

